1. Short title; table of contents
(a) Short title
This Act may be cited as the Northern Nevada Economic Development and Conservation Act of 2023.(b) Table of contents
The table of contents of this Act is as follows:Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.Title I—Douglas County Sec. 101. Purpose.Sec. 102. Definitions.Subtitle A—Land Conveyances and SalesSec. 111. Conveyance to State of Nevada.Sec. 112. Tahoe Rim Trail.Sec. 113. Conveyance to Douglas County, Nevada.Sec. 114. Sale of certain Federal land.Sec. 115. Open Space Recreation Area.Subtitle B—Tribal Cultural ResourcesSec. 121. Transfer of land to be held in trust for Tribe.Subtitle C—Resolution of Burbank Canyons Wilderness Study AreaSec. 131. Addition to National Wilderness Preservation System.Sec. 132. Administration.Sec. 133. Fish and wildlife management.Sec. 134. Release of wilderness study area.Sec. 135. Native American cultural and religious uses.Subtitle D—Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction over Forest Service LandSec. 141. Authority of Forest Service to transfer administrative jurisdiction to State or county for public purposes.Sec. 142. Special use permits for recreation and public purposes.Title II—Incline Village Fire ProtectionSec. 201. Purpose.Sec. 202. Definitions.Sec. 203. Land conveyances for public purposes.Title III—Northern Nevada Flood Protection and ManagementSec. 301. Purpose.Sec. 302. Definitions.Sec. 303. Land conveyances for flood protection.Title IV—Ruby Mountains Protection ActSec. 401. Short title.Sec. 402. Withdrawal of certain National Forest System Land.Sec. 403. Withdrawal of certain National Wildlife Refuge System Land.Title V—Carson City Public Lands CorrectionSec. 501. Definitions.Sec. 502. Land conveyances.Sec. 503. Carson City street connector conveyance.Sec. 504. Amendment to reversionary interests.Sec. 505. Disposal of Federal land.Sec. 506. Transfer of land to the United States.Sec. 507. Disposition of proceeds.Sec. 508. Postponement; exclusion from sale.Title VI—Pershing County Economic Development and ConservationSec. 601. Short title.Sec. 602. Definitions.Subtitle A—Checkerboard Land ResolutionSec. 611. Findings.Sec. 612. Definitions.Sec. 613. Sale or exchange of eligible land.Sec. 614. Sale of encumbered land.Sec. 615. Disposition of proceeds.Sec. 616. Conveyance of land for use as a public cemetery.Subtitle B—Wilderness AreasSec. 621. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System.Sec. 622. Administration.Sec. 623. Wildlife management.Sec. 624. Release of wilderness study areas.Sec. 625. Native American cultural and religious uses.Title VII—Federal ComplexSec. 701. Federal Complex.Title VIII—Implementation of White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development ActSec. 801. Disposition of proceeds.Sec. 802. Conveyance to White Pine County, Nevada.Sec. 803. Issuance of corrective patents.Title IX—Fernley Economic Development ActSec. 901. Short title.Sec. 902. Land conveyances.Title X—Conveyances to the City of SparksSec. 1001. Definitions.Sec. 1002. Conveyance of land for use as a public cemetery.Sec. 1003. Conveyance of land for use as regional public parks.Title XI—General ProvisionsSec. 1101. Public purpose conveyances.Sec. 1102. Use of certain sand and gravel.Sec. 1103. Administration of State water rights.Sec. 1104. Amendment to conveyance of Federal land in Storey County, Nevada.Title XII—Greenlink West ProjectSec. 1201. Greenlink West Project.I Douglas County 
101. Purpose
The purpose of this title is to promote conservation, improve public land, and provide for sensible development in Douglas County, Nevada, and for other purposes.102. Definitions
In this title:
(1) County
The term County means Douglas County, Nevada.
(2) Map
The term Map means the map entitled Douglas County Economic Development and Conservation Act and dated October 14, 2019.
(3) Public land
The term public land has the meaning given the term public lands in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
(4) Secretary concerned
The term Secretary concerned means—(A) with respect to National Forest System land, the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Chief of the Forest Service); and(B) with respect to land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, including land held for the benefit of the Tribe, the Secretary of the Interior.
(5) State
The term State means the State of Nevada.
(6) Tribe
The term Tribe means the Washoe Tribe of Nevada and California.
(7) Wilderness
The term Wilderness means the Burbank Canyons Wilderness designated by this title.A Land Conveyances and Sales
111. Conveyance to State of Nevada
(a) Conveyance
Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary concerned shall convey to the State without consideration all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described in subsection (b).(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 67 acres of Forest Service land generally depicted as Lake Tahoe-Nevada State Park on the Map.(c) Costs
As a condition for the conveyance under subsection (a), all costs associated with such conveyances shall be paid by the State.(d) Use of land

(1) In general
Any land conveyed to the State under subsection (a) shall be used only for—(A) the conservation of wildlife or natural resources; or(B) a public park.
(2) Facilities
Any facility on the land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be constructed and managed in a manner consistent with the uses described in paragraph (1).(e) Reversion
If any portion of the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used in a manner that is inconsistent with the uses described in subsection (d), the land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, revert to the United States.112. Tahoe Rim Trail
(a) In general
The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the County and other stakeholders, shall develop and implement a cooperative management agreement for the land described in subsection (b)—
(1) to improve the quality of recreation access by providing additional amenities as agreed on by the Secretary and the County; and
(2) to conserve the natural resources values.(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) consists of the approximately 13 acres of land generally depicted as Tahoe Rim Trail North Parcel on the Map.113. Conveyance to Douglas County, Nevada
(a) Definition of federal land
In this section, the term Federal land means the approximately 7,777 acres of Federal land located in the County that is identified as Douglas County Land Conveyances on the Map.(b) Authorization of conveyance
Subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary concerned receives a request from the County for the conveyance of the Federal land, the Secretary concerned shall convey to the County, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under subsection (b), including any costs for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be paid by the County.(d) Use of Federal land

(1) In general
The Federal land conveyed under subsection (b)—(A) may be used by the County for flood control or any other public purpose consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.); and(B) shall not be disposed of by the County.
(2) Reversion
If the Federal land conveyed under subsection (b) is used in a manner inconsistent with paragraph (1), the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, revert to the United States.(e) Acquisition of Federal reversionary interest

(1) Request
The County may submit to the Secretary concerned a request to acquire the Federal reversionary interest in all or any portion of the Federal land conveyed under this section.
(2) Appraisal
(A) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of receipt of a request under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall complete an appraisal of the Federal reversionary interest in the Federal land requested by the County.(B) Requirement
The appraisal under subparagraph (A) shall be completed in accordance with—(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; and(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(3) Conveyance required
(A) In general
If, by the date that is 1 year after the date of completion of the appraisal under paragraph (2), the County submits to the Secretary concerned an offer to acquire the Federal reversionary interest requested under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned, by not later than the date that is 30 days after the date on which the offer is submitted, shall convey to the County that reversionary interest.(B) Consideration
As consideration for the conveyance of the Federal reversionary interest under subparagraph (A), the County shall pay to the Secretary concerned an amount equal to the appraised value of the Federal reversionary interest, as determined under paragraph (2).(C) Costs of conveyance
Any costs relating to the conveyance under subparagraph (A), including any costs for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be paid by the Secretary concerned.
(4) Disposition of proceeds
Any amounts collected under this subsection shall be disposed of in accordance with section 114(i) of this title.(f) Revocation of orders
Any public land order that withdraws any of the land described in subsection (a) from appropriation or disposal under a public land law shall be revoked to the extent necessary to permit disposal of that land.114. Sale of certain Federal land
(a) In general
Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary concerned shall, in accordance with the other provisions of that Act and any other applicable law, and subject to valid existing rights, conduct one or more sales of the Federal land including mineral rights described in subsection (b) to qualified bidders.(b) Description of land
The Federal land referred to in subsection (a) consists of—
(1) the approximately 31.5 acres of public land generally depicted as Lands for Disposal on the Map; and
(2) not more than 10,000 acres of land in the County that—(A) is not segregated or withdrawn on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, unless the land is withdrawn in accordance with subsection (g); and(B) is identified for disposal by the Secretary concerned through—(i) the Carson City Consolidated Resource Management Plan; or(ii) any subsequent amendment to the management plan that is undertaken with full public involvement.(c) Joint selection required
The Secretary concerned and the County shall jointly select which parcels of the Federal land described in subsection (b)(2) to offer for sale under subsection (a).(d) Compliance with local planning and zoning laws
Before carrying out a sale of Federal land under subsection (a), the County shall submit to the Secretary concerned a certification that qualified bidders have agreed to comply with—
(1) County zoning ordinances; and
(2) any master plan for the area approved by the County.(e) Method of sale
The sale of Federal land under subsection (a) shall be—
(1) sold through a competitive bidding process, unless otherwise determined by the Secretary concerned; and
(2) for not less than fair market value.(f) Recreation and public purposes act conveyances

(1) In general
Not later than 30 days before any land described in subsection (b) is offered for sale under subsection (a), the State or County may elect to obtain the land for public purposes in accordance with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) Retention
Pursuant to an election made under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall retain the elected land for conveyance to the State or County in accordance with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).(g) Withdrawal

(1) In general
Subject to valid existing rights and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal land described in subsection (b) is withdrawn from—(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws;(B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and(C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
(2) Termination
The withdrawal under paragraph (1) shall be terminated—(A) on the date of sale or conveyance of title to the land including mineral rights described in subsection (b) pursuant to this title; or(B) with respect to any land described in subsection (b) that is not sold or exchanged, not later than 1 year after the date on which the land was offered for sale under this title.
(3) Exception
Paragraph (1)(A) shall not apply to a sale made consistent with this section or an election by the County or the State to obtain the land described in subsection (b) for public purposes under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).(h) Deadline for sale

(1) In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, if there is a qualified bidder for the land described in subsection (b), the Secretary concerned shall offer the land for sale to the qualified bidder.
(2) Postponement; exclusion from sale
At the request of the County, the Secretary concerned may temporarily postpone or exclude from the sale under paragraph (1) all or a portion of the land described in subsection (b).(i) Disposition of proceeds
Of the proceeds from the sale under this section—
(1) 5 percent shall be disbursed to the State for use by the State for general education programs of the State;
(2) 10 percent shall be disbursed to the County for use by the County for general budgeting purposes; and
(3) 85 percent shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the United States, to be known as the Douglas County Special Account, which shall be available to the Secretary concerned until expended, without further appropriation—(A) to reimburse costs incurred by the Secretary concerned in preparing for the sale of the land described in subsection (b), including—(i) the costs of surveys and appraisals; and(ii) the costs of compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713);(B) to reimburse costs incurred by the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service in preparing for and carrying out the transfers of land to be held in trust by the United States under title II; and(C) to acquire environmentally sensitive land or an interest in environmentally sensitive land in the County—(i) pursuant to the Douglas County Open Space and Agricultural Lands Preservation Implementation Plan, or any subsequent amendment to the plan that is undertaken with full public involvement; and(ii) for flood control purposes.(j) Revocation of orders
Any public land order that withdraws any of the land described in subsection (b) from appropriation or disposal under a public land law shall be revoked to the extent necessary to permit disposal of that land.115. Open Space Recreation Area
(a) Authorization of conveyance
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary of Agriculture receives a request from the County, the Secretary shall convey to the County, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land to be used for recreation and any other public purpose consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) consists of approximately 1,084 acres of land as depicted as Open Space Recreation Area on the Map.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under subsection (b), including any costs for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be paid by the County.(d) Use of Federal land
The Federal land conveyed under subsection (a) shall not be disposed of by the County.B Tribal Cultural Resources
121. Transfer of land to be held in trust for Tribe
(a) In general
Subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described in subsection (b)—
(1) shall be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe; and
(2) shall be part of the reservation of the Tribe.(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) consists of—
(1) approximately 2,669 acres of Federal land generally depicted as Washoe Tribe Conveyances on the Map; and
(2) any land administered on the date of the enactment of this Act by the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service and generally depicted as Section 5 lands.(c) Survey
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall complete a survey of the boundary lines to establish the boundaries of the land taken into trust under subsection (a).(d) Use of trust land

(1) Gaming
Land taken into trust under this section shall not be eligible, or considered to have been taken into trust, for class II gaming or class III gaming (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
(2) Thinning; landscape restoration
(A) In general
The Secretary concerned, in consultation and coordination with the Tribe, may carry out any fuel reduction and other landscape restoration activities on the land taken into trust under subsection (a) (including land that includes threatened and endangered species habitat), that are beneficial to—(i) the Tribe; and(ii) (I) the Bureau of Land Management; or(II) the Forest Service.(B) Conservation benefits
Activities carried out under subparagraph (A) include activities that provide conservation benefits to a species—(i) that is not listed as endangered or threatened under section 4(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533(c)); but(ii) is—(I) listed by a State as a threatened or endangered species;(II) a species of concern; or(III) a candidate for a listing as an endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).(e) Water rights
Nothing in this section affects the allocation, ownership, interest, or control, as in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, or any other valid existing right held by the United States, an Indian tribe, a State, or a person.C Resolution of Burbank Canyons Wilderness Study Area
131. Addition to National Wilderness Preservation System
(a) Designation
In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the approximately 12,392 acres of Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as generally depicted on the Map as Burbank Canyons Wilderness is designated as wilderness and as a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as the Burbank Canyons Wilderness.(b) Boundary
The boundary of any portion of the Wilderness that is bordered by a road shall be at least 100 feet from the centerline of the road to allow public access.(c) Map and legal description

(1) In general
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall prepare a map and legal description of the Wilderness.
(2) Effect
The map and legal description prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this title, except that the Secretary concerned may correct any minor error in the map or legal description.
(3) Availability
A copy of the map and legal description prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.(d) Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, the Wilderness is withdrawn from—
(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
(3) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.132. Administration
(a) Management
Subject to valid existing rights, the Wilderness shall be administered by the Secretary concerned in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall be considered to be a reference to the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the Secretary of the Interior.(b) Livestock
The grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, if established before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary concerned considers to be necessary in accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–405).(c) Incorporation of acquired land and interests
Any land or interest in land within the boundaries of the Wilderness that is acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as part of the Wilderness.(d) Adjacent management

(1) In general
Congress does not intend for the designation of the Wilderness to create a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Wilderness.
(2) Nonwilderness activities
The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within the Wilderness shall not preclude the conduct of the activities or uses outside the boundary of the Wilderness.(e) Military overflights
Nothing in this title restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the Wilderness, including military overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness area;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units of special use airspace, or the establishment of military flight training routes, over the Wilderness.(f) Existing airstrips
Nothing in this title restricts or precludes low-level overflights by aircraft utilizing airstrips in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act that are located within 5 miles of the proposed boundary of the Wilderness.(g) Wildfire, insect, and disease management
In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Secretary concerned may take any measures in the Wilderness that the Secretary concerned determines to be necessary for the control of fire, insects, and diseases, including, as the Secretary concerned determines to be appropriate, the coordination of the activities with the State or a local agency.(h) Data collection
In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary concerned may prescribe, the Secretary concerned may authorize the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological collection devices in the Wilderness if the Secretary concerned determines that the facilities and access to the facilities are essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir operation activities.(i) Water rights

(1) Findings
Congress finds that—(A) the Wilderness is located—(i) in the semiarid region of the Great Basin; and(ii) at the headwaters for the streams and rivers on land with respect to which there are few, if any—(I) actual or proposed water resource facilities located upstream; and(II) opportunities for diversion, storage, or other uses of water occurring outside the land that would adversely affect the wilderness values of the land;(B) the Wilderness is generally not suitable for use or development of new water resource facilities; and(C) because of the unique nature of the Wilderness, it is possible to provide for proper management and protection of the wilderness and other values of land by means different from the means used in other laws.
(2) Purpose
The purpose of this section is to protect the wilderness values of the Wilderness by means other than a federally reserved water right.
(3) Statutory construction
Nothing in this title—(A) constitutes an express or implied reservation by the United States of any water or water rights with respect to the Wilderness;(B) affects any water rights in the State (including any water rights held by the United States) in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act;(C) establishes a precedent with regard to any future wilderness designations;(D) affects the interpretation of, or any designation made under, any other Act; or(E) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any interstate compact or equitable apportionment decree that apportions water among and between the State and other States.
(4) Nevada water law
The Secretary concerned shall follow the procedural and substantive requirements of State law in order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to the Wilderness.
(5) New projects
(A) Definition of water resource facility
(i) In general
In this paragraph, the term water resource facility means irrigation and pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, transmission and other ancillary facilities, and other water diversion, storage, and carriage structures.(ii) Exclusion
In this paragraph, the term water resource facility does not include wildlife guzzlers.(B) Restriction on new water resource facilities
Except as otherwise provided in this title, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license or permit for the development of any new water resource facility within any wilderness area, including a portion of a wilderness area, that is located in the County.133. Fish and wildlife management
(a) In general
In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping, in the Wilderness.(b) Management activities
In furtherance of the purposes and principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the Secretary concerned may conduct any management activities in the Wilderness that are necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support the populations, if the activities are carried out—
(1) in a manner that is consistent with relevant wilderness management plans; and
(2) in accordance with—(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and(B) appropriate policies, such as those set forth in Appendix B of the report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–405), including the occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles and aircraft if the use, as determined by the Secretary concerned, would promote healthy, viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations that would enhance wilderness values with the minimal impact necessary to reasonably accomplish those tasks.(c) Existing activities
Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of the report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–405), the State may continue to use aircraft, including helicopters, to survey, capture, trans- plant, monitor, and provide water for wildlife populations in the Wilderness.(d) Hunting, fishing, and trapping

(1) In general
The Secretary concerned may designate areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the Wilderness.
(2) Consultation
Except in emergencies, the Secretary concerned shall consult with the appropriate State agency and notify the public before making any designation under paragraph (1).(e) Cooperative agreement

(1) In general
The State (including a designee of the State) may conduct wildlife management activities in the Wilderness—(A) in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the cooperative agreement between the Secretary of the Interior and the State entitled Memorandum of Understanding between the Bureau of Land Management and the Nevada Department of Wildlife Supplement No. 9 and signed November and December 2003, including any amendments to the cooperative agreement agreed to by the Secretary of the Interior and the State; and(B) subject to all applicable laws (including regulations).
(2) References; clark county
For the purposes of this subsection, any reference to Clark County in the cooperative agreement described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be considered to be a reference to the Wilderness.134. Release of wilderness study area
(a) Finding
Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the approximately 1,065 acres of public land in the Burbank Canyons Wilderness study area not designated as wilderness by this title has been adequately studied for wilderness designation.(b) Release
Any public land described in subsection (a) that is not designated as wilderness by this title—
(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); or
(2) shall be managed in accordance with—(A) land management plans adopted under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712); and(B) cooperative conservation agreements in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act.135. Native American cultural and religious uses
Nothing in this title alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b)).D Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction over Forest Service Land
141. Authority of Forest Service to transfer administrative jurisdiction to State or county for public purposes
(a) In general
Consistent with section 3(b) of Public Law 96–586 (commonly known as the Santini-Burton Act; 94 Stat. 3384), and subject to valid existing rights, on receipt of a request by the State or County and subject to such terms and conditions as are satisfactory to the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary may transfer the Forest Service land or interests in Forest Service land described in subsection (b) to the State or County, without consideration, to protect the environmental quality and public recreational use of the transferred Forest Service land.(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is any Forest Service land that is located within the boundaries of the area acquired under Public Law 96–586 (commonly known as the Santini-Burton Act; 94 Stat. 3381) that is—
(1) unsuitable for Forest Service administration; or
(2) necessary for a public purpose.(c) Use of land
A parcel of land conveyed pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
(1) be managed by the State or County, as applicable—(A) to maintain undeveloped open space and to preserve the natural characteristics of the transferred land in perpetuity; and(B) to protect and enhance water quality, stream environment zones, and important wildlife habitat; and
(2) be used by the State or County, as applicable, for recreation or other public purposes including trails, trailheads, fuel reduction, flood control, and other infrastructure consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).(d) Reversion
If a parcel of land transferred under subsection (a) is used in a manner that is inconsistent with subsection (c), the parcel of land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture, revert to the United States.142. Special use permits for recreation and public purposes
(a) Issuance of special use permits
Not later than one year after the date on which the Secretary of Agriculture receives an application from the County or unit of local government for the use of the Federal land outlined in subsection (b), the Secretary, in accordance with all applicable laws shall—
(1) issue to the County a special use permit for recreation and public purposes; and
(2) authorize a permit length up to 30 years or longer for the use of those lands.(b) Description of land
The land referenced in subsection (a) applies to approximately 188 acres of Federal land located in the County that is identified as Directed Special Use Permit on the Map.II Incline Village Fire Protection
201. Purpose
The purpose of this title is to improve hazardous fuels management and enhance public recreation through the conveyance of Federal land to Incline Village General Improvement District in Nevada for public purposes.202. Definitions
In this title:
(1) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2) District
The term District means the Incline Village General Improvement District in the State of Nevada.203. Land conveyances for public purposes
(a) Authorization of conveyance
In consideration of the District assuming from the United States all liability for administration, care and maintenance, within 180 days after the effective date of this title, the Secretary shall convey to the District without consideration all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land described in subsection (b) for public uses including fire risk reduction activities, public recreation, and any other public purpose.(b) Description of federal land
The Federal land referred to in subsection (a) is depicted on the map entitled Incline Village Fire Protection Act Map and dated May 2019.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under subsection (c), including any costs for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be paid by the District.(d) Reversion
If the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used in a manner inconsistent with subsection (a), the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.III Northern Nevada Flood Protection and Management
301. Purpose
This purpose of this title is to convey certain Federal land along the Truckee River in Nevada to the Truckee River Flood Management Authority for the purpose of environmental restoration and flood control management.302. Definitions
In this title:
(1) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, including the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Reclamation.
(2) TRFMA
The term TRFMA means the Truckee River Flood Management Authority in the State of Nevada.303. Land conveyances for flood protection
(a) Authorization of conveyance
The Secretary shall convey to the Truckee River Flood Management Authority without consideration all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land described in subsection (b) for the purposes of flood attenuation, riparian restoration, and protection along the Truckee River in Nevada. Upon conveyance, TRFMA will coordinate with Storey County, as needed, in order to provide easements for access and use to necessary infrastructure located immediately south of the Truckee River and Interstate 80.(b) Description of federal land
The Federal land referred to in subsection (a) is depicted as flood control conveyances on the map entitled Northern Nevada Flood Protection Management Land Conveyance Map and dated April 12, 2023.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under subsection (c), including any costs for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be paid by the TRFMA.(d) Reversion
If the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used in a manner inconsistent with subsection (a), the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.IV Ruby Mountains Protection Act
401. Short title
This title may be cited as the Ruby Mountains Protection Act.402. Withdrawal of certain National Forest System Land
(a) Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, the approximately 309,272 acres of Federal land and interests in the land located in the Ruby Mountains subdistrict of the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest within the area depicted on the Forest Service map entitled S. 258 Ruby Mountains Protective Act and dated December 5, 2019, as National Forest System Lands are withdrawn from all forms of operation under the mineral leasing laws.(b) Application
Any land or interest in land within the boundary of the Ruby Mountains subdistrict of the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest that is acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (a).(c) Availability of map
The map described in subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service.403. Withdrawal of certain National Wildlife Refuge System Land
(a) Withdrawal

(1) In general
Subject to valid existing rights, the approximately 39,926.10 acres of Federal land and interests in the land located in the Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge and depicted on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service map entitled S. XXX Ruby Mountains Protection Act and dated February 23, 2021, as Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge are withdrawn from all forms of operation under the mineral leasing laws, subject to paragraph (2).
(2) Exception
The withdrawal under paragraph (1) shall not apply to noncommercial refuge management activities by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.(b) Application
Any land or interest in land within the boundary of the Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge that is acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be withdrawn in accordance with subsection (a).(c) Availability of map
The map described in subsection (a)(1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.V Carson City Public Lands Correction
501. Definitions
(a) Secretary
The term Secretary means—
(1) the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to land in the National Forest System; and
(2) the Secretary of the Interior with respect to other Federal land.(b) City
The term City means Carson City, Nevada.(c) Carson City Federal Land Collaboration Committee
The term Carson City Federal Land Collaboration Committee means a committee comprised of—
(1) the City Manager;
(2) a designee of the City Manager; and
(3) not more than 3 members appointed by the Carson City Board of Supervisors to represent areas of Carson City’s government, including the Parks, Recreation, and Open Space Department, the Community Development Department, Property Management.502. Land conveyances
(a) Conveyance
Subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described in subsection (b).(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 258 acres depicted as Lands to Acquire on the map entitled Carson City OPLMA Lands and dated 2018.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection (a), including costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid by the City and are eligible for reimbursement under the account as described in section 506(a) of this title.(d) Sale or lease of land to third parties
The City may enter into an agreement to sell, lease, or otherwise convey all or part of the land described in subsection (b).(e) Conditions
The City shall sell the land at fair market value, and proceeds will be deposited in the account as described in section 506(a) of this title.503. Carson City street connector conveyance
(a) Authorization of conveyance
The Secretary concerned shall convey to Carson City without consideration all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcels of Federal land described in subsection (b) for expansion of roadway.(b) Description of federal land
The Federal land referred to in subsection (a) is depicted as Proposed Land Transfer on the map entitled Carson City OPLMA Lands and dated February 28, 2019.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance authorized under subsection (a), including any costs for surveys and other administrative costs, shall be paid by the city.(d) Reversion
If the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used in a manner inconsistent with subsection (a), the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.504. Amendment to reversionary interests
(a) Sale or lease of land to third parties
Section 2601(b)(4) of Public Law 111–11 (123 Stat. 1111) is amended by inserting after subparagraph (D), the following:(E) Sale or lease of land to third parties
The City may enter into an agreement to sell, lease, or otherwise convey all or part of the land described in subparagraph (D) to third parties for public purposes..(b) Conditions
The sale of any land under subsection (a) shall be for not less than fair market value.505. Disposal of Federal land
(a) Disposal
Subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall dispose of the land described in subsection (b).(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 28 acres depicted as Lands for BLM Disposal on the map entitled Carson City OPLMA Lands and dated 2018.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the disposal under subsection (a), including costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid by the party entering into the disposal agreement with the Bureau of Land Management for the land described in subsection (b).(d) Conditions
Upon disposal, the City shall retain—
(1) a public utility easement concurrent with Koontz Lane and Conti Drive, which provides waterlines and access to the water tank immediately east of the subject parcels; and
(2) an existing drainage easement for a future detention basin located on APN 010–152–06 depicted as Lands for BLM Disposal on the map entitled Carson City OPLMA Lands and dated 2018.506. Transfer of land to the United States
(a) Conveyance
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the City shall convey all right and title of the land described in subsection (b) to the Secretary of the Interior.(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 17 acres depicted as Lands for Disposal on the map entitled Carson City OPLMA Lands and dated 2018.(c) Disposal
Subject to valid existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall dispose of the land described in subsection (b).(d) Costs

(1) Costs related to disposal
Any costs relating to the disposal under subsection (c), including costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid by the party entering into the disposal agreement with the Bureau of Land Management for the land described in subsection (b).
(2) Costs related to conveyance
Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection (a), including costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid by the City and is eligible for reimbursement through the account as described in section 506(a) of this title.(e) Conditions
Upon disposal, the City shall retain—
(1) access and a public utility easement on APN 010–252–02 for operation and maintenance of a municipal well; and
(2) a public right-of-way for Bennet Avenue.507. Disposition of proceeds
(a) Disposition of proceeds
The proceeds from the sale of land under sections 502, 503, 504, and 505 of this title, and section 2601(e)(1)(B) of Public Law 111–11 (123 Stat. 1111(e)(1)(B)) shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the United States, to be known as the Carson City Special Account, which shall be available to the Secretary in collaboration with and if approved in writing by the Carson City Federal Land Collaboration Committee, for—
(1) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the Secretary in preparing for the sale of the land described in sections 502, 504, and 505 of this title, and section 2601(e)(1)(B) of Public Law 111–11 (123 Stat. 1111(e)(1)(B)), including—(A) the costs of surveys and appraisals; and(B) the costs of compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713);
(2) the reimbursement of costs incurred as described in paragraphs (3) through (8) by the City for lands under sections 502, 503, 504, and 505 of this title and section 2601(d) of Public Law 111–11 (123 Stat. 1111(d));
(3) the conduct of wildlife habitat conservation and restoration projects, including projects that benefit the greater sage-grouse in the City;
(4) the development and implementation of comprehensive, cost-effective, multijurisdictional hazardous fuels reduction and wildfire prevention and restoration projects in the City;
(5) the acquisition of environmentally sensitive land or interest in environmentally sensitive land in Carson City, Nevada;
(6) wilderness protection and processing wilderness designation, including the costs of appropriate fencing, signage, public education, and enforcement for the wilderness areas designated through this title;
(7) capital improvements administered by the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service in the City; and
(8) educational purposes specific to the City.(b) Investment of special account
Amounts deposited into the Carson City Special Account—
(1) shall earn interest in an amount determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, based on the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities; and
(2) may be expended by the Secretary in accordance with this section.(c) Management of special account
The management and procedures thereof of the Carson City Special Account shall be determined by an intergovernmental agreement between the City and the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management, Carson City Office.508. Postponement; exclusion from sale
Section 2601(d)(6) of Public Law 111–11 (123 Stat. 1113) is amended to read as follows:
(6) Deadline for sale
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Northern Nevada Economic Development and Conservation Act of 2023, if there is a qualified bidder for the land described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall offer the land for sale to the qualified bidder..VI Pershing County Economic Development and Conservation
601. Short title
This title may be cited as the Pershing County Economic Development and Conservation Act.602. Definitions
In this title:
(1) County
The term County means Pershing County, Nevada.
(2) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3) State
The term State means the State of Nevada.
(4) Wilderness area
The term wilderness area means a wilderness area designated by section 721(a) of this title.A Checkerboard Land Resolution
611. Findings
Congress finds that—
(1) since the passage of the Act of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 489, chapter 120; commonly known as the Pacific Railway Act of 1862), under which railroad land grants along the Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way created a checkerboard land pattern of alternating public land and privately owned land, management of the land in the checkerboard area has been a constant source of frustration for the County government, private landholders in the County, and the Federal Government;
(2) management of Federal land in the checkerboard area has been costly and difficult for the Federal land management agencies, creating a disincentive to manage the land effectively;
(3) parcels of land within the checkerboard area in the County will not vary significantly in appraised value by acre due to the similarity of highest and best use in the County; and
(4) consolidation of appropriate land within the checkerboard area through sales and exchanges for development and Federal management will—(A) help improve the tax base of the County; and(B) simplify management for the Federal Government.612. Definitions
In this title:
(1) Eligible land
The term eligible land means any land administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management—(A) that is within the area identified on the Map as Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area that is designated for disposal by the Secretary through—(i) the Winnemucca Consolidated Resource Management Plan; or(ii) any subsequent amendment or revision to the management plan that is undertaken with full public involvement; and(B) that is not encumbered land.
(2) Encumbered land
The term encumbered land means any land administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management within the area identified on the Map as Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area that is encumbered by mining claims, millsites, or tunnel sites.
(3) Map
The term Map means the map prepared under section 713(b)(1) of this title.
(4) Qualified entity
The term qualified entity means, with respect to a portion of encumbered land—(A) the owner of a mining claim, millsite, or tunnel site located on a portion of the encumbered land on the date of the enactment of this Act; and(B) a successor in interest of an owner described in subparagraph (A).613. Sale or exchange of eligible land
(a) Authorization of conveyance
Notwithstanding sections 202, 203, 206, and 209 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713, 1716, 1719), as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in accordance with this title and any other applicable law and subject to valid existing rights, shall conduct sales or exchanges of the eligible land.(b) Map

(1) In general
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map that depicts the boundaries of the land identified for disposal under this title, to be identified as the Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area on the Map.
(2) Minor corrections
The Secretary, in consultation with the County, may correct minor errors in the Map.(c) Joint selection required
After providing public notice, the Secretary and the County shall jointly select parcels of eligible land to be offered for sale or exchange under subsection (a).(d) Method of sale
A sale of eligible land under subsection (a) shall be—
(1) consistent with subsections (d) and (f) of section 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713);
(2) conducted through a competitive bidding process, under which adjoining landowners are offered the first option, unless the Secretary determines there are suitable and qualified buyers that are not adjoining landowners; and
(3) for not less than fair market value, based on an appraisal in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice and this title.(e) Land exchanges

(1) In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act and subject to the joint selection requirements under subsection (c), the Secretary shall offer to exchange all eligible land under this section for private land.
(2) Adjacent land
To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall seek to enter into agreements with one or more owners of private land adjacent to the eligible land for the exchange of the private land for the eligible land, if the Secretary determines that the exchange would consolidate Federal land ownership and facilitate improved Federal land management.
(3) Priority land exchanges
In acquiring private land under this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to the acquisition of private land in higher value natural resource areas in the County.(f) Mass appraisals

(1) In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary shall—(A) conduct a mass appraisal of eligible land to be sold or exchanged under this section;(B) prepare an evaluation analysis for each land transaction under this section; and(C) make available to the public the results of the mass appraisals conducted under subparagraph (A).
(2) Use
The Secretary may use mass appraisals and evaluation analyses conducted under paragraph (1) to facilitate exchanges of eligible land for private land.(g) Deadline for sale or exchange; exclusions

(1) Deadline
Not later than 90 days after the date on which the eligible land is jointly selected under subsection (c), the Secretary shall offer for sale or exchange the parcels of eligible land jointly selected under that subsection.
(2) Postponement or exclusion
The Secretary or the County may postpone, or exclude from, a sale or exchange of all or a portion of the eligible land jointly selected under subsection (c) for emergency ecological or safety reasons.(h) Withdrawal

(1) In general
Subject to valid existing rights and mining claims, millsites, and tunnel sites, effective on the date on which a parcel of eligible land is jointly selected under subsection (c) for sale or exchange, that parcel is withdrawn from—(A) all forms of entry and appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws;(B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and(C) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws.
(2) Termination
The withdrawal of a parcel of eligible land under paragraph (1) shall terminate—(A) on the date of sale or, in the case of exchange, the conveyance of title of the parcel of eligible land under this section; or(B) with respect to any parcel of eligible land selected for sale or exchange under subsection (c) that is not sold or exchanged, not later than 2 years after the date on which the parcel was offered for sale or exchange under this section.614. Sale of encumbered land
(a) Authorization of conveyance
Notwithstanding sections 202, 203, 206, and 209 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713, 1716, 1719), not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and subject to valid existing rights held by third parties, the Secretary shall offer to convey to qualified entities, for fair market value, the remaining right, title, and interest of the United States, in and to the encumbered land.(b) Costs of sales to qualified entities
As a condition of each conveyance of encumbered land under this section, the qualified entity shall pay all costs related to the conveyance of the encumbered land, including the costs of surveys and other administrative costs associated with the conveyance.(c) Offer To convey

(1) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary receives a fair market offer from a qualified entity for the conveyance of encumbered land, the Secretary shall accept the fair market value offer.
(2) Appraisal
Fair market value of the interest of the United States in and to encumbered land shall be determined by an appraisal conducted in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.(d) Conveyance
Not later than 180 days after the date of acceptance by the Secretary of an offer from a qualified entity under subsection (c)(1) and completion of a sale for all or part of the applicable portion of encumbered land to the qualified entity, the Secretary, by delivery of an appropriate deed, patent, or other valid instrument of conveyance, shall convey to the qualified entity all remaining right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the applicable portion of the encumbered land.(e) Merger
Subject to valid existing rights held by third parties, on delivery of the instrument of conveyance to the qualified entity under subsection (d), the prior interests in the locatable minerals and the right to use the surface for mineral purposes held by the qualified entity under a mining claim, millsite, tunnel site, or any other Federal land use authorization applicable to the encumbered land included in the instrument of conveyance, shall merge with all right, title, and interest conveyed to the qualified entity by the United States under this section to ensure that the qualified entity receives fee simple title to the purchased encumbered land.615. Disposition of proceeds
(a) Disposition of proceeds
Of the proceeds from the sale of land under this title—
(1) 5 percent shall be disbursed to the State for use in the general education program of the State;
(2) 10 percent shall be disbursed to the County for use as determined through normal County budgeting procedures; and
(3) the remainder shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the United States, to be known as the Pershing County Special Account, which shall be available to the Secretary, in consultation with the County, for—(A) the acquisition of land from willing sellers (including interests in land) in the County—(i) within a wilderness area;(ii) that protects other environmentally significant land;(iii) that secures public access to Federal land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes; or(iv) that improves management of Federal land within the area identified on the Map as Checkerboard Lands Resolution Area; and(B) the reimbursement of costs incurred by the Secretary in preparing for the sale or exchange of land under this title.(b) Investment of special account
Any amounts deposited in the special account established under subsection (a)(3)—
(1) shall earn interest in an amount determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, based on the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities; and
(2) may be expended by the Secretary in accordance with this section.(c) Reports

(1) In general
Not later than September 30 of the fifth fiscal year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 5 fiscal years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the State, the County, and the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the operation of the special account established under subsection (a)(3) for the preceding 5 fiscal years.
(2) Contents
Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, for the fiscal year covered by the report—(A) a statement of the amounts deposited into the special account;(B) a description of the expenditures made from the special account for the fiscal year, including the purpose of the expenditures;(C) recommendations for additional authorities to fulfill the purpose of the special account; and(D) a statement of the balance remaining in the special account at the end of the fiscal year.616. Conveyance of land for use as a public cemetery
(a) In general
The Secretary shall convey to the County, without consideration, the Federal land described in subsection (b).(b) Description of federal land
The Federal land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 10 acres of land depicted as Unionville Cemetery on the Map.(c) Use of conveyed land
The Federal land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be used by the County as a public cemetery.B Wilderness Areas
621. Additions to the National Wilderness Preservation System
(a) Additions
In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following parcels of Federal land in the State are designated as wilderness and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Cain Mountain Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 12,339 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed Cain Mountain Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which, together with the Federal land designated as wilderness by sections 2905(b)(1)(C) and 2932(a)(1) of Public Law 117–263, shall be known as the Cain Mountain Wilderness.
(2) Bluewing Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 24,900 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed Bluewing Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be known as the Bluewing Wilderness.
(3) Selenite Peak Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 22,822 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed Selenite Peak Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be known as the Selenite Peak Wilderness.
(4) Mount Limbo Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 11,855 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed Mt. Limbo Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be known as the Mount Limbo Wilderness.
(5) North Sahwave Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 13,875 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed North Sahwave Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be known as the North Sahwave Wilderness.
(6) Grandfathers Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 35,339 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed Grandfathers Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be known as the Grandfathers Wilderness.
(7) Fencemaker Wilderness
Certain Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 14,942 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled Proposed Fencemaker Wilderness and dated February 9, 2017, which shall be known as the Fencemaker Wilderness.(b) Boundary
The boundary of any portion of a wilderness area that is bordered by a road shall be 100 feet from the centerline of the road.(c) Map and legal description

(1) In general
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal description of each wilderness area.
(2) Effect
Each map and legal description prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in the map or legal description.
(3) Availability
Each map and legal description prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(4) Withdrawal
Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness areas designated by subsection (a) are withdrawn from—(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws;(B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and(C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.622. Administration
(a) Management
Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness areas shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that with respect to the wilderness areas—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall be considered to be a reference to the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the Secretary of the Interior.(b) Livestock
The grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas, if established before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary in accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–405).(c) Incorporation of acquired land and interests
Any land or interest in land within the boundary of a wilderness area that is acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as part of the wilderness area.(d) Adjacent management

(1) In general
Congress does not intend for the designation of the wilderness areas to create protective perimeters or buffer zones around the wilderness areas.
(2) Nonwilderness activities
The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness area shall not preclude the conduct of those activities or uses outside the boundary of the wilderness area.(e) Military overflights
Nothing in this title restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the wilderness areas, including military overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness areas;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units of special use airspace, or the establishment of military flight training routes, over the wilderness areas.(f) Wildfire, insect, and disease management
In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Secretary may take such measures in the wilderness areas as are necessary for the control of fire, insects, and diseases (including, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the coordination of the activities with a State or local agency).(g) Climatological data collection
In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological data collection devices in the wilderness areas if the Secretary determines that the facilities and access to the facilities are essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir operation activities.(h) Water rights

(1) Findings
Congress finds that—(A) the wilderness areas are located—(i) in the semiarid region of the Great Basin; and(ii) at the headwaters of the streams and rivers on land with respect to which there are few, if any—(I) actual or proposed water resource facilities located upstream; and(II) opportunities for diversion, storage, or other uses of water occurring outside the land that would adversely affect the wilderness values of the land;(B) the wilderness areas are generally not suitable for use or development of new water resource facilities; and(C) because of the unique nature of the wilderness areas, it is possible to provide for proper management and protection of the wilderness and other values of land in ways different from those used in other laws.
(2) Purpose
The purpose of this section is to protect the wilderness values of the wilderness areas by means other than a federally reserved water right.
(3) Statutory construction
Nothing in this title—(A) constitutes an express or implied reservation by the United States of any water or water rights with respect to the wilderness areas;(B) affects any water rights in the State (including any water rights held by the United States) in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act;(C) establishes a precedent with regard to any future wilderness designations;(D) affects the interpretation of, or any designation made under, any other Act; or(E) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any interstate compact or equitable apportionment decree that apportions water among and between the State and other States.
(4) Nevada water law
The Secretary shall follow the procedural and substantive requirements of State law in order to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to the wilderness areas.
(5) New projects
(A) Definition of water resource facility
(i) In general
In this paragraph, the term water resource facility means irrigation and pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, transmission and other ancillary facilities, and other water diversion, storage, and carriage structures.(ii) Exclusion
In this paragraph, the term water resource facility does not include wildlife guzzlers.(B) Restriction on new water resource facilities
Except as otherwise provided in this title, on and after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license or permit for the development of any new water resource facility within the wilderness areas.(i) Temporary telecommunications device

(1) In general
Nothing in this title prevents the placement of a temporary telecommunications device for law enforcement or agency administrative purposes in the Selenite Peak Wilderness in accordance with paragraph (2).
(2) Additional requirements
Any temporary telecommunications device authorized by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall—(A) be carried out in accordance with—(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and(ii) all other applicable laws (including regulations);(B) to the maximum practicable, be located in such a manner as to minimize impacts on the recreational and other wilderness values of the area; and(C) be for a period of not longer than 7 years.623. Wildlife management
(a) In general
In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping, in the wilderness areas.(b) Management activities
In furtherance of the purposes and principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the Secretary may conduct any management activities in the wilderness areas that are necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support the populations, if the activities are carried out—
(1) consistent with relevant wilderness management plans; and
(2) in accordance with—(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and(B) appropriate policies, such as those set forth in Appendix B of the report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–405), including noxious weed treatment and the occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles if the use, as determined by the Secretary, would promote healthy, viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations that would enhance wilderness values with the minimal impact necessary to reasonably accomplish those tasks.(c) Existing activities
In accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House Report 101–405), the State may continue to use aircraft, including helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water for wildlife populations.(d) Wildlife water development projects
Subject to subsection (f), the Secretary shall authorize structures and facilities, including existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas if—
(1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by the Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, viable and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
(2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.(e) Hunting, fishing, and trapping

(1) In general
The Secretary may designate areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the wilderness areas.
(2) Consultation
Except in emergencies, the Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State agency and notify the public before taking any action under paragraph (1).(f) Cooperative agreement

(1) In general
The State, including a designee of the State, may conduct wildlife management activities in the wilderness areas—(A) in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the cooperative agreement between the Secretary and the State entitled Memorandum of Understanding between the Bureau of Land Management and the Nevada Department of Wildlife Supplement No. 9 and signed November and December 2003, including any amendments to the cooperative agreement agreed to by the Secretary and the State; and(B) subject to all applicable laws (including regulations).
(2) References; clark county
For the purposes of this subsection, any references to Clark County in the cooperative agreement described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be considered to be a reference to the wilderness areas.624. Release of wilderness study areas
(a) Finding
Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the approximately 48,600 acres of public land in the portions of the China Mountain, Mt. Limbo, Selenite Mountains, and Tobin Range wilderness study areas that have not been designated as wilderness by section 721(a) of this title and the portion of the Augusta Mountains wilderness study area within the County that has not been designated as wilderness by section 721(a) of this title have been adequately studied for wilderness designation.(b) Release
The public land described in subsection (a)—
(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(2) shall be managed in accordance with the applicable land use plans adopted under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).625. Native American cultural and religious uses
(a) In general
Nothing in this title alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)).(b) Cultural uses
Nothing in this title precludes the traditional collection of pine nuts in a wilderness area for personal, noncommercial use consistent with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).VII Federal Complex
701. Federal Complex
(a) Establishment
The Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture shall establish on Federal lands identified as Federal Complex on the map titled Proposed Federal Complex, and dated January 27, 2020, a Federal complex for—
(1) department agencies and operations for the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service;
(2) the Bureau of Land Management Nevada State Office;
(3) the Forest Service Humboldt-Toiyabe Headquarters;
(4) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Nevada State Office;
(5) the Bureau of Reclamation Nevada State Office;
(6) the Bureau of Indian Affairs Western Nevada Agency Office;
(7) the option for the Forest Service to house the Carson Ranger District Office; and
(8) the option for the Bureau of Land Management to house the Carson City District Office.(b) Funding sources

(1) Special accounts
Ten percent of the total amount deposited in the Federal special accounts established under titles I, V, and VI of this Act shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture for construction of the Federal complex.
(2) Secondary sources
If the amount made available by paragraph (1) is insufficient to complete construction of the Federal complex, the Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture may use other accounts available for the operation of the Bureau of Land Management, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Forest Service in Nevada to provide such additional amounts as may be necessary to complete construction of the Federal complex.VIII Implementation of White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act
801. Disposition of proceeds
Section 312 of the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–432; 120 Stat. 3030) is amended—
(1) by striking Of the and inserting the following:(a) In general
Of the;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking use of fire protection, law enforcement, education, public safety, housing, social services, transportation, and planning and inserting for use as determined through normal County budgeting procedures;
(3) in paragraph (3)—(A) in subparagraph (G), by striking ; and and inserting a semicolon;(B) in subparagraph (H), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and(C) by adding at the end the following:(I) processing by a government entity of public land-use authorizations and rights-of-way relating to the development of land conveyed to the County under this Act, with an emphasis on authorizations and rights-of-way relating to any infrastructure needed for the expansion of the White Pine County Industrial Park under section 352(c)(2).; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:(b) Investment of funds
Amounts deposited in the special account shall earn interest in an amount determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities, and may be expended according to the provisions of this section..802. Conveyance to White Pine County, Nevada
Section 352 of the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–432; 120 Stat. 3039) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the Northern Nevada Economic Development and Conservation Act of 2023, before the Secretary;
(2) in subsection (c)—(A) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting or other nonresidential development as determined by the County and in compliance with County planning and zoning codes before the final period;(B) in paragraph (3)(B)(i), by striking through a competitive bidding process and inserting consistent with section 244 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (as in effect on the date of the enactment of the Northern Nevada Economic Development and Conservation Act of 2023; and(C) in paragraph (3)(C)—(i) by striking gross and inserting net; and(ii) by adding at the end the following: For the purpose of this subparagraph, the term net proceeds means funds remaining from disposal after all costs described in section 312(a)(2).; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:(e) Deadline
If the Secretary has not conveyed to the County the parcels of land described in subsection (b) by the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of the Northern Nevada Economic Development and Conservation Act of 2023, the Secretary shall convey to the County, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcels of land..803. Issuance of corrective patents
The White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–432; 120 Stat. 3028 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 352 the following:353. Issuance of corrective patents
(a) Issuance
Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1711, 1712), not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this section or 60 days after the Secretary receives written notification under this section from a private landowner, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, shall issue corrective patents, subject to valid existing rights, for private lands adjacent to public land when—
(1) a cloud on the title demonstrates that the private land had been patented before 1976; and
(2) the correction is for 5 acres or less.(b) Administrative costs
The United States shall pay administrative costs of corrective patents issued under this section..IX Fernley Economic Development Act
901. Short title
This title may be cited as the Fernley Economic Development Act.902. Land conveyances
(a) Conveyance
Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall convey to the City, for fair market value, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.(b) Appraisal
The Secretary shall determine fair market value of the Federal land in accordance with the Federal Lands Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701) and based on an appraisal conducted in accordance with—
(1) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition; and
(2) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.(c) Costs
As a condition of the conveyance of the Federal land under subsection (a), the City shall pay—
(1) an amount equal to the appraised value determined in accordance with subsection (b); and
(2) all costs related to the conveyance, including all surveys, appraisals, and other administrative costs associated with the conveyance of the Federal land to the City.(d) Disposition of proceeds
Any gross proceeds from the sale, lease, or conveyance of Federal land under this section shall be deposited into the special account created by the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–263).(e) Definitions
In this Act:
(1) City
The term City means the city of Fernley, Nevada.
(2) Map
The term map means the map entitled Fernley Economic Development Map and dated September 23, 2020.
(3) Federal land
The term Federal land means the approximately 12,085 acres of federally owned land generally depicted within Tri II EDCA–V Prop Boundary on the map.
(4) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior.X Conveyances to the City of Sparks
1001. Definitions
In this title:
(1) City
The term City means the City of Sparks, Nevada.
(2) Map
The term Map means the map entitled Sparks Public Purpose Conveyances and dated April 15, 2020.
(3) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior.1002. Conveyance of land for use as a public cemetery
(a) Conveyance
Subject to valid and existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall convey to the City without consideration all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described in subsection (b).(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 40 acres of land depicted as Cemetery Conveyance on the Map.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection (a), including the costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid by the City.(d) Use of land
The land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be used only for a cemetery.1003. Conveyance of land for use as regional public parks
(a) Conveyance
Subject to valid and existing rights and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), the Secretary shall convey to the City without consideration all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land described in subsection (b).(b) Description of land
The land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 448.16 acres depicted as Golden Eagle Regional Park and 266.04 acres depicted as Wedekind Regional Park on the Map.(c) Costs
Any costs relating to the conveyance under subsection (a), including the costs of surveys and administrative costs, shall be paid by the City.(d) Use of land

(1) In general
The land conveyed under subsection (a) shall be used only for public parks.
(2) Reversion
If any portion of the land conveyed under subsection (a) is used in a manner that is inconsistent with the use described in paragraph (1), the land shall revert, at the discretion of the Secretary, to the United States.XI General Provisions
1101. Public purpose conveyances
(a) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Eligible entity
The term eligible entity means the State of Nevada, a political subdivision of the State, a unit of local government, or a regional governmental entity in any county of the State of Nevada.
(2) Federal land
The term Federal land means any Federal land in the State of Nevada—(A) that is leased, patented, authorized as a right-of-way, or otherwise approved for use pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act; 44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), or any other applicable Federal law; and(B) on which a permanent public facility has been or may be constructed.(b) Authorization for conveyance
Subject to valid existing rights and subsection (d), on request by an eligible entity for the conveyance of a parcel of Federal land, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the eligible entity by quitclaim deed, without consideration, terms, conditions, reservations, or stipulations, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel of Federal land for any public purpose.(c) Map and legal description

(1) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of a request by an eligible entity for a conveyance of Federal land under subsection (b), the Secretary shall file a map and legal description of the parcel of Federal land to be conveyed under that paragraph.
(2) Effect; availability
Each map and legal description filed under paragraph (1) shall—(A) have the same force and effect as if included in this Act; and(B) be on file and available for public inspection in the Nevada State Office of the Bureau of Land Management.
(3) Errors
The Secretary may correct any minor error in a map or legal description filed under paragraph (1).(d) Reversion

(1) In general
As a condition of a conveyance under subsection (b) and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall require that, if any parcel of the Federal land conveyed under that subsection is no longer used for any public purpose, all right, title, and interest in and to the parcel of Federal land shall—(A) revert to the United States; or(B) on authorization by the Secretary, be disposed of by the eligible entity through a sale, lease, or other conveyance, in accordance with subsection (e).
(2) Exception
The removal of sediment from a stormwater detention basin or the movement or removal of minerals on a parcel of Federal land conveyed under subsection (b) that may be interfering with or precluding any public purpose shall not result in the parcel being considered to be no longer used for a public purpose under paragraph (1).
(3) Requirements for sale, lease, or other conveyance
(A) Fair market value
The sale, lease, or other conveyance of a parcel of Federal land by an eligible entity under paragraph (1)(B) shall be for fair market value.(B) Disposition of proceeds
Any gross proceeds received by an eligible entity from the sale, lease, or other conveyance of a parcel of Federal land under such paragraph shall be deposited in the special account.
(4) Responsibility for remediation
If a parcel of Federal land reverts to the Secretary under paragraph (1)(A) and the Secretary determines that the Federal land is contaminated with hazardous waste, the eligible entity to which the Federal land was conveyed shall be responsible for remediation of the contamination of the parcel of Federal land.(e) Applicable law
Any lease, patent, or real estate transaction for Federal land conveyed under subsection (b) is affirmed and validated as having been completed pursuant to, and in compliance with, the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act; 44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), for the construction of public schools, fire stations, parks, community centers, law enforcement facilities, flood control facilities, and other public infrastructure.(f) Payment of costs
The Secretary shall pay for any administrative and real estate transfer costs incurred in carrying out the conveyances of Federal land under subsection (b) using amounts from the special account.1102. Use of certain sand and gravel
The movement of common varieties of sand and gravel on a surface estate acquired under Public Law 105–263, Public Law 107–282, or under the provisions of this division, by the owner of the surface estate, for purposes including but not limited to recontouring or balancing the surface estate or filling utility trenches on the surface estate, or the disposal of such sand and gravel at an off-site landfill, shall not constitute the unauthorized use of such sand and gravel.1103. Administration of State water rights
Nothing in this Act affects the allocation, ownership, interest, or control, as in existence on the date of the enactment of this Act, of any water, water right, or any other valid existing right held by the United States, an Indian tribe, a State, or a person.1104. Amendment to conveyance of Federal land in Storey County, Nevada
Section 3009(d)(1)(B) of division B of the Carl Levin and Howard P. Buck McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (128 Stat. 3751) is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: ; and the land generally depicted as BLM Owned County Request Transfer on the map entitled Restoring Storey County, dated October 22, 2020..XII Greenlink West Project
1201. Greenlink West Project
(a) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Project
The term Project means the Greenlink West Project described in—(A) the notice of intent of the Bureau of Land Management entitled Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement and Potential Resource Management Plan Amendments for the Greenlink West Project in Clark, Nye, Esmeralda, Mineral, Lyon, Storey, and Washoe Counties in Nevada (87 Fed. Reg. 25658 (May 2, 2022)); and (B) the associated administrative record for the Greenlink West Project numbered DOI–BLM–NV–0000–2022–0004–EIS. 
(2) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
(3) Tribe
The term Tribe means the Walker River Paiute Tribe. 
(4) Walker lake parcel
The term Walker Lake Parcel means the following land in Mineral County, Nevada:(A) All land held by the Bureau of Land Management in T. 11 N., R. 29 E., secs. 35 and 36, Mount Diablo Meridian. (B) All land held by the Bureau of Reclamation in T. 10 N., R. 30 E., secs. 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 16, 17, 20, 21, 28, 29, 32, and 33, Mount Diablo Meridian. (C) All land held by the Bureau of Land Management in T. 10.5 N., R. 30 E., secs. 31 and 32, Mount Diablo Meridian. (b) Project authorization; right-of-Way
If the Walker Lake Parcel is taken into trust for the benefit of the Tribe on, before, or after the date of enactment of this Act, the consent of the Tribe for the use for the Project of the portion of the Walker Lake Parcel taken into trust shall be deemed to have been obtained by the Secretary subject to the following:
(1) The use of the Walker Lake Parcel land for the Project shall be subject to review under the pending proceeding under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), which shall be modified—(A) to reflect the trust title of the Walker Lake Parcel; and(B) to address any other laws applicable to rights-of-way on Tribal land, including any environmental, wildlife, conservation, historic preservation, and natural resources laws.
(2) As soon as practicable after the date on which the Walker Lake Parcel is taken into trust for the benefit of the Tribe, the Secretary shall approve a right-of-way agreement between the Tribe and the Project applicant before the commencement of construction and installation of the Project to address applicable provisions under part 169 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), including, with respect to compensation paid to the Tribe, term, amendment, renewal, assignment, access rights, operation and maintenance, and an annual premium usage fee consistent with prevailing rates or standards to be paid directly to the Tribe, subject to the requirement that the Secretary and the Tribe shall exercise all authority under applicable law (including regulations) with respect to the use of, and compliance with, the right-of-way.