
1. Designation of Hiroshi Hershey Miyamura Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic

(a) Findings
Congress finds the following: 
(1) Hiroshi Hershey Miyamura was born on October 6, 1925, in Gallup, New Mexico.

(2) A second generation Japanese American, Hershey Miyamura first served in the United States Army near the end of World War II. 
(3) Hershey Miyamura served in the Army at a time when many of his fellow Japanese Americans, and that includes his future wife, were detained in internment camps in the United States.

(4) Hershey Miyamura served in the storied 442nd Infantry Regiment, which was composed of soldiers with Japanese ancestry and became one of the most decorated units in the history of the United States military. 
(5) Following the start of the Korean War in 1950, the Army recalled Hershey Miyamura, who had remained as a member of the reserve components of the Army, back into active duty.

(6) During an overnight firefight from April 24 to April 25, 1951, then-Corporal Miyamura covered the withdrawal of his entire company from advancing enemy forces as a machine gun squad leader. 
(7) The selfless actions by Hershey Miyamura that night allowed all 16 of his men to withdraw safely before he was severely wounded and captured as a prisoner of war.

(8) Nearly 2½ years later, following his release and return to the United States, President Eisenhower presented Hershey Miyamura with the Congressional Medal of Honor in a ceremony at the White House. 
(9) The lifelong dedication of Hershey Miyamura to the United States never ceased. It continued long after his decorated military service ended.

(10) After he received his honorable discharge from the Army, Hershey Miyamura opened a service station along Route 66 in his hometown of Gallup, New Mexico. 
(11) Hershey Miyamura remained active in his community until his dying days, advocating for his fellow veterans and inspiring young people with lectures on patriotism, faith, and service.
(b) Designation
The clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs located at 2075 South NM Highway 602, Gallup, New Mexico, shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and designated as the Hiroshi Hershey Miyamura Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic or the Hiroshi Hershey Miyamura VA Clinic. (c) References
Any reference in any law, regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the clinic referred to in subsection (b) shall be considered to be a reference to the Hiroshi Hershey Miyamura VA Clinic.
