
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Protecting Coasts and Cities from Severe Weather Act. 2. Coastal flooding and storm surge forecast improvement program
 (a) In general
The Under Secretary, in collaboration with the Integrated Ocean Observing System, the National Integrated Flood Information System, the United States weather industry, and academic partners, shall establish a coastal flooding and storm surge forecast improvement program (in this section refer to as the program).
(b) Goal
The goal of the program shall be to reduce through the development and extension of accurate, effective, and actionable forecasts and warnings the loss of life and economic losses from coastal flooding and storm surge events. (c) Priority
In implementing the program, the Under Secretary shall prioritize activities that carry out the following:

(1) Improve understanding and capacity for real-time prediction of the ocean’s role in coastal flooding and storm surge events. 
(2) Improve the capacity to mitigate or prevent the impacts of coastal flooding and storm surge events.

(3) Utilize distributed sensors to easily incorporate data into models. (d) Innovative observations
The Under Secretary shall ensure the program periodically examines, tests, and evaluates the value of incorporating innovative observations, such as acoustic or infrasonic measurements, observations from crewed or uncrewed vehicles, and observations from coastal, ocean, and inland water observation networks, or other emerging technologies, with respect to the improvement of coastal flooding and storm surge forecasts, predictions, and warnings.
(e) Program plan
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, in coordination with the Director of the National Weather Service, shall develop a plan that details the specific research, development, data acquisition, and technology transfer activities, as well as corresponding resources and timelines, necessary to achieve the goal of the program under subsection (b). (f) Annual budget for plan submittal
After the development of the plan pursuant to subsection (e), the Under Secretary, acting through the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, and in coordination with the Director of the National Weather Service, shall, not less frequently than annually, submit to Congress a proposed budget corresponding with the activities identified in such plan.
(g) Definition
In this section, the term Under Secretary has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8501). 3. Data gaps in highly vulnerable areas of the United States
 (a) In general
The Under Secretary, in coordination with the Director of the National Weather Service and Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and in consultation with academic partners, shall carry out activities to ensure equal and complete weather observation coverage and emergency information sharing in the United States, including relating to the following:

(1) Reviewing areas in the continental United States and the territories that are considered under-observed for weather phenomenon, and identifying associated challenges. 
(2) Increasing observations and developing new observational capabilities with respect to under-observed regions, including urban regions.

(3) Establishing or supporting testbeds to develop and integrate within the urban canopy new observation or information sharing tools, such as next generational compact radars for observations. 
(4) To the maximum extent practicable, advancing weather forecasting and climate modeling capabilities for urban scales.

(5) Undertaking workforce development efforts for emergency management officials and meteorologists in highly vulnerable and under-observed areas of the United States. (b) Pilot program
In carrying out this section, the Under Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Weather Service and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall establish an interagency partnership to support pilot projects that accelerate coordination and use of localized weather data in infrastructure and emergency management decisions by Federal, State, and local officials.
(c) Priority
At least one pilot project under subsection (b) shall address key science challenges to using mesonet data in local decision making and development of new tools and training for operators of infrastructure, such as dams, energy generation and distribution facilities, nuclear power plants, and transportation networks. (d) Definition
In this section, the term Under Secretary has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8501).
