
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Conservation Reserve Program Amendments Act of 2023. 2. Conservation reserve program amendments
 (a) In general
Section 1231 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) is amended—

(1) in subsection (b)(5)— (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking or at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (E), by inserting or at the end; and (C) by adding at the end the following:

(F) the land has, during the 10-year period preceding the date of enactment of this subparagraph, been used to plant a citrus crop;; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following:

(j) Citrus land


(1) In general
In enrolling acres of citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F) in the conservation reserve, the Secretary shall enroll the land using the continuous enrollment procedure described in subsection (d)(6). 
(2) Priority
In enrolling acres of citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F) in the conservation reserve, the Secretary may give priority to land that, as determined by the Secretary—
(A) is at risk of conversion or development; (B) is affected by huanglongbing; or
(C) is of ecological significance, including land that— (i) may assist in the restoration of threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
(ii) may assist in preventing a species from being listed as a threatened or endangered species under that Act; or (iii) improves or creates wildlife habitat corridors.

(3) Incidental land
In enrolling land in the conservation reserve, land owned by an owner of citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F) that is incidental to agricultural production may be considered for enrollment if the Secretary determines that the incidental land is at risk of conversion or development and is of ecological significance as described in paragraph (2)(C). 
(4) Fallow groves
Not later than 180 days after the later of the first day of the period of enrollment of citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F) in the conservation reserve and the date on which Secretary notifies an owner or operator of the decision of the Secretary to enroll citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F) in the conservation reserve, the owner or operator of the citrus land enrolled in the conservation reserve shall provide evidence to the Secretary that any fallow groves that are affected by huanglongbing within the enrolled area have been removed.

(5) Duration of contracts
For the purpose of carrying out enrollment of citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F), the Secretary shall enter into contracts of not less than 1, and not more than 5, years. 
(6) Limitations
For each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028, the total acreage of citrus land described in subsection (b)(5)(F) enrolled in the conservation reserve shall not exceed 100,000 acres..
(b) Exclusion of adjusted gross income limitation
Section 1001D(b)(2)(C) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308–3a(b)(2)(C)) is amended by striking the Food Security Act of 1985. and inserting this Act (other than a payment or benefit under the conservation reserve program under subchapter B of chapter 1 of subtitle D of that title with respect to citrus land described in section 1231(b)(5)(F)).. 