1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Mono Lake Kutzadikaa Tribe Recognition Act .2. Definitions
In this Act:
(1) Member
The term member means an individual who is enrolled in the Tribe pursuant to the constitution of the Tribe.
(2) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior.
(3) Tribe
The term Tribe means the Mono Lake Kutzadikaa Tribe.3. Federal recognition
(a) In general
Federal recognition is extended to the Tribe.(b) Effect of federal laws
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all Federal laws (including regulations) of general application to Indians and Indian tribes, including the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.; commonly known as the Indian Reorganization Act), shall apply to the Tribe and members.4. Federal services and benefits
(a) In general
The Tribe and each member of the Tribe shall be eligible for all services and benefits provided by the United States to Indians and federally recognized Indian Tribes, without regard to—
(1) the existence of a reservation for the Tribe; or
(2) the location of the residence of any member on or near an Indian reservation.(b) Service area
For purposes of the delivery of services and benefits to members, the service area of the Tribe shall be considered to be the counties of Mono and Inyo, in the State of California.5. Reaffirmation of rights
(a) In general
Nothing in this Act diminishes any right or privilege of the Tribe or any member that existed before the date of the enactment of this Act.(b) Claims of tribe
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, nothing in this Act alters or affects any legal or equitable claim of the Tribe to enforce any right or privilege reserved by, or granted to, the Tribe that was wrongfully denied to, or taken from, the Tribe before the date of the enactment of this Act.(c) Hunting and fishing rights
The Tribe shall be granted hunting and fishing rights on all Federal lands within its aboriginal land area. Each Federal agency who administers lands within the Tribe’s aboriginal land area shall work with the Tribe so as to accommodate the exercise of its hunting and fishing rights within the agencies existing land use plans, Federal law and governing regulations.6. Membership roll
(a) In general
As a condition of receiving recognition, services, and benefits pursuant to this Act, the Tribe shall submit to the Secretary, by not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, a membership roll consisting of the name of each individual enrolled as a member of the Tribe.(b) Determination of membership
The qualifications for inclusion on the membership roll of the Tribe shall be determined in accordance with section (a) of Article III of the constitution of the Tribe, dated June 23, 2003.(c) Maintenance of roll
The Tribe shall maintain the membership roll.7. Trust land
(a) Identification of land
The Secretary shall identify land administered by the Bureau of Land Management that is located in that portion of Mono County that is within the Tribe’s ancestral homelands, sufficient to support the location of Tribal Government administration and services, economic development, and housing.(b) Land into trust
After the Secretary identifies said land to meet the purposes so described, the Tribe shall request and the Secretary shall accept such lands into trust for the benefit of the Tribe. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Secretary or the Tribe from acquiring land, and the Secretary taking land into trust for the benefit of the Tribe, pursuant to section 5 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5108; commonly known as the Indian Reorganization Act). For purposes of acquisitions under such Act, the Tribe shall be deemed to have been under Federal jurisdiction in 1934.