
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Defense Access Roads Improvement Act. 2. Defense access road program enhancements to address transportation infrastructure in vicinity of military installations
Section 2816 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112–81) is amended—

(1) in subsection (b)— (A) in paragraph (1), by striking this Act and inserting the Defense Access Roads Improvement Act; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking this Act and inserting the Defense Access Roads Improvement Act; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

(d) Petition for certification of roads as defense access roads


(1) In general
Not later than October 1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a formal mechanism under which— (A) a State, county, or municipality may petition the Secretary to certify roads as defense access roads under section 210 of title 23, United States Code; and
(B) the Secretary shall respond, in writing, to any such petition. 
(2) State defined
In this subsection, the term State means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands.
(e) Public availability of information
The Secretary of Defense shall maintain and update regularly on an appropriate website of the Federal Government, a list of all roads certified as important to the national defense by the Secretary or by such other official as the President may designate. Such website shall include, for each such road, each of the following: 
(1) The military installation (as such term is defined in section 2687(g)(1) of title 10, United States Code) that is in closest proximity to the road.

(2) The date on which the road was so certified. 
(3) Any fiscal year for which the President transmitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, a budget request that included an amount for such road.

(4) Any fiscal year for which Congress appropriated an amount for such road. (f) Treatment of classified information
Nothing in subsection (d) or (e) shall be construed as a requirement for the Secretary of Defense to make publicly available any classified information..
3. Report on defense access roads
Section 2814(b) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417) is amended— 
(1) by striking April 1, 2009 and inserting one year after the date of the enactment of the Defense Access Roads Improvement Act; and

(2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: and name any road that the commander of a military installation (as such term is defined in section 2687(g)(1) of title 10, United States Code) or the Secretary of a military department has recommended that the Secretary of Defense certify as a defense access road during the period beginning on April 1, 2009, and ending on the date of the enactment of the Defense Roads Improvement Act. 4. Improvement of defense access roads program
Section 210 of title 23, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in subsection (a)(1)— (A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i), by inserting or military installations after reservations; and (ii) in clause (iii), by inserting or commercial shipyards after sea ports;
(B) in subparagraph (C)— (i) in clause (i), by inserting or military installations after reservations; and
(ii) in clause (ii), by inserting or commercial shipyards after sea ports; 
(2) in subsection (f), by striking section 112 and inserting sections 112, 113, and 313;

(3) in subsection (i), by inserting , or commercial shipyard after sea port; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

(j) Military installation defined
In this section, the term military installation has the meaning given that term in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.. 