
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Buck Stops Here Act. 2. Transactions connected to illicit fentanyl trafficking
 (a) Determination
If the Secretary of the Treasury determines that reasonable grounds exist for concluding that 1 or more financial institutions operating outside of the United States, or 1 or more classes of transactions within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of the United States, or 1 or more types of accounts within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of the United States is of primary money laundering concern in connection with illicit fentanyl trafficking, the Secretary of the Treasury may, by order, regulation, or otherwise as permitted by law—

(1) require domestic financial institutions and domestic financial agencies to take 1 or more of the special measures described in section 5318A(b) of title 31, United States Code; or 
(2) prohibit, or impose conditions upon, certain transmittals of funds (to be defined by the Secretary) by any domestic financial institution or domestic financial agency, if such transmittal of funds involves any such institution, class of transaction, or type of account.
(b) Classified information
In any judicial review of a finding of the existence of a primary money laundering concern, or of the requirement for 1 or more special measures with respect to a primary money laundering concern made under this section, if the designation or imposition, or both, were based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)), such information may be submitted by the Secretary to the reviewing court ex parte and in camera. This subsection does not confer or imply any right to judicial review of any finding made or any requirement imposed under this section. (c) Availability of information
The exemptions from, and prohibitions on, search and disclosure provided in section 5319 of title 31, United States Code, shall apply to any report or record of report filed pursuant to a requirement imposed under subsection (a) of this section. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of that section.
(d) Penalties
The penalties provided for in sections 5321 and 5322 of title 31, United States Code, that apply to violations of special measures imposed under section 5318A of title 31, United States Code, shall apply to violations of any order, regulation, special measure, or other requirement imposed under subsection (a) of this section, in the same manner and to the same extent as described in sections 5321 and 5322. (e) Injunctions
The Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil action to enjoin a violation of any order, regulation, special measure, or other requirement imposed under subsection (a) of this section in the same manner and to the same extent as described in section 5320 of title 31, United States Code.
(f) Report required


(1) In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on Financial Services and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and Foreign Relations of the Senate a report that shall identify any additional regulations, statutory changes, enhanced due diligence, and reporting requirements that are necessary to better identify, prevent, and combat money laundering linked to the trafficking of illicit fentanyl. 
(2) Format
The report required under this subsection shall be made available to the public, including on the website of the Department of the Treasury, but may contain a classified annex and be accompanied by a classified briefing.
