1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Pursuing Equity in Mental Health Act.2. Primary and Behavioral Health Care grant program
Section 520K of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb–42) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (d) through (i) as subsections (e) through (j), respectively;
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following: (d) Special consideration regarding services for racial and ethnic minority groups
In awarding grants under subsection (b), the Secretary may, as appropriate, give special consideration to eligible entities serving a high proportion of racial and ethnic minority groups.;
(3) in subsection (c)(2)(G), by striking subsection (e) and inserting subsection (f);
(4) in subsection (h)—(A) by striking subsection (f) and inserting subsection (g); and(B) by striking subsection (d)(2) and inserting subsection (e)(2); and 
(5) in subsection (j)(1) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)), by striking $60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027 and inserting $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2023 and $80,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029. 3. Addressing racial and ethnic minority mental health disparities research gaps
Not later than 9 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health and the Assistant Secretary of Substance Use and Mental Health, shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (or, if the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine decline to enter into such an arrangement, the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, or another appropriate entity)—
(1) to conduct a study with respect to mental health disparities research gaps in racial and ethnic minority groups (as defined in section 1707(g) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300u–6(g))); and
(2) to submit to the Congress a report on the results of such study, including—(A) a compilation of information on the prevalence of mental health outcomes in such racial and ethnic minority groups; and(B) an assessment of information on the impact of exposure to community violence, adverse childhood experiences, structural bias, and other psychological traumas on mental health outcomes in such racial and minority groups.4. Health professions competencies to address racial and ethnic minority mental health disparities
Section 597 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ll) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following: (b) Best practices; core competencies
An individual or entity receiving a grant under subsection (a) may use the funds to engage in the following activities related to the development and dissemination of best practices or core competencies addressing mental health disparities among racial and ethnic minority groups for use in the training of students in the professions of social work, psychology, psychiatry, addiction medicine, marriage and family therapy, mental health counseling, and substance misuse counseling:
(1) Formation of committees or working groups comprised of experts from accredited health professions schools to identify best practices and core competencies relating to mental health disparities among racial and ethnic minority groups.
(2) Planning of workshops in national fora to allow for public input into the educational needs associated with mental health disparities among racial and ethnic minority groups.
(3) Dissemination and promotion of the use of best practices or core competencies in undergraduate and graduate health professions training programs nationwide.
(4) Establishing external advisory boards to provide meaningful input into policy and program development and best practices to reduce mental health disparities among racial and ethnic minority groups..5. Racial and ethnic minority behavioral and mental health outreach and education strategy
Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 552 (42 U.S.C. 290ee–7) of such Act the following:554. Behavioral and mental health outreach and education strategy
(a) In general
The Secretary shall, in consultation with advocacy and behavioral and mental health organizations serving racial and ethnic minority groups, develop and implement an outreach and education strategy to promote behavioral and mental health and reduce stigma associated with mental health conditions and substance use among racial and ethnic minority groups. Such strategy shall—
(1) be designed to—(A) meet the diverse cultural and language needs of the various racial and ethnic minority groups; and(B) be developmentally and age-appropriate;
(2) increase awareness of symptoms of mental illnesses common among such groups, taking into account differences within at-risk subgroups;
(3) provide information on evidence-based, culturally and linguistically appropriate and adapted interventions and treatments;
(4) ensure full participation of, and engage, both consumers and community members, which may include adolescents and young adults, in the development and implementation of materials; and
(5) seek to broaden the perspective among both individuals in these groups and communities serving these groups to use a comprehensive and integrated public health approach to promoting behavioral health by focusing on the intersection between behavioral and physical health.(b) Reports
Beginning not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress, and make publicly available, a report on the extent to which the strategy developed and implemented under subsection (a) addressed behavioral and mental health outcomes associated with mental health conditions and substance use among racial and ethnic minority groups.(c) Definition
In this section, the term racial and ethnic minority group has the meaning given to that term in section 1707(g).(d) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029..6. Additional funds for National Institutes of Health
(a) In general
In addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated to the National Institutes of Health, there is authorized to be appropriated to such Institutes $150,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029 to—
(1) build relations with communities and conduct or support clinical research, including clinical research on racial or ethnic disparities in physical and mental health; and
(2) to carry out the Strategic Framework For Addressing Youth Mental Health Disparities developed by the National Institute of Mental Health.(b) Definition
In this section, the term clinical research has the meaning given to such term in section 409 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284d).7. Additional funds for National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities
In addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated to the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, there is authorized to be appropriated to such Institute $750,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029.8. Technical correction
Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating the second section 550 (42 U.S.C. 290ee–10) (relating to Sobriety Treatment And Recovery Teams) as section 553; and
(2) by moving such section, as so redesignated, so as to appear after section 552 (42 U.S.C. 290ee–7).