
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Spectrum Coexistence Act. 2. Working group on performance criteria for radio receivers
 (a) Establishment
 
(1) In general
Not later than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information and the Commission, shall convene a working group to develop, and periodically update, criteria, ratings, and other measures, including voluntary standards of radio receivers operating in Federal systems.

(2) Purpose
The purpose of the criteria, ratings, and other measures, including voluntary standards developed by the working group, shall be to encourage the design, manufacture, and sale of radio receivers operating in Federal systems that incorporate appropriate measures to provide interference immunity to ensure that the reasonable current and future use of cochannel or non-cochannel spectrum, including use by non-Federal systems of spectrum designated by the Commission for commercial operations, will not result in receiver operations being seriously degraded or obstructed, or their operations repeatedly interrupted. 
(3) Criteria
In developing the receiver criteria, ratings, and other measures, the working group shall take into consideration the unique technical and operational characteristics of the different Federal systems.
(b) Chair; members
The Chair of the working group shall be the Secretary of Commerce and shall include representatives from the following: 
(1) The Assistant Secretary.

(2) The Commission. 
(3) The telecommunications industry.

(4) Academia. (c) Publication of criteria, rating, and other measures
Not later than 18 months after the date on which the working group is established pursuant to subsection (a)(1), the Commission and Assistant Secretary shall publish the criteria, ratings, and other measures developed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) on a publicly accessible page on the website of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and in the Federal Register.
(d) Periodic review and update
Not less frequently than every 4 years, the working group shall review and update, if appropriate, the criteria, ratings, and other measures published pursuant to subsection (c). Any such update shall be published as described in subsection (c) not later than 14 days after the date on which the update is completed.  (e) Savings clause
No action taken by the working group, the Assistant Secretary, or the Commission pursuant to this section shall be used to impose any obligation on manufacturers with respect to any radio receivers designed to operate exclusively in non-Federal systems.
(f) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Assistant Secretary
The term Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.

(2) Commission
The term Commission means the Federal Communications Commission. 
(3) Federal system
The term Federal system means a system of radio stations belonging to and operated by the United States that receives radio frequency signals on spectrum that is allocated exclusively for Federal Government use or allocated for both Federal and non-Federal operations.
