
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Mission not Emissions Act. 2. Prohibition on Federal contractor disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related financial risk
 (a) Prohibition
Recipients of Federal contracts may not be required to do any of the following:

(1) Disclose greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related financial risk as described in the proposed rule related to Federal Acquisition Regulation: Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate-Related Financial Risk (87 Fed. Reg. 68312), or any substantially similar rule.  
(2) Provide a greenhouse gas inventory or any other report on greenhouse gas emissions, including Scope 1 emissions, Scope 2 emissions, and Scope 3 emissions. 

(3) Develop and submit greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for validation by any non-governmental organization, including the Science-Based Targets initiative.  (b) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Greenhouse gas
The term greenhouse gas means— (A) carbon dioxide;
(B) methane; (C) nitrous oxide;
(D) nitrogen trifluoride; (E) hydrofluorocarbons;
(F) perfluorcarbons; or (G) sulfur hexafluoride.

(2) Greenhouse gas inventory
The term greenhouse gas inventory means a quantified list of an entity’s annual greenhouse gas emissions. 
(3) Scope 1 emissions
The term Scope 1 emissions means, with respect to an entity, direct greenhouse gas emissions that are emitted from sources that are owned or controlled by the entity.

(4) Scope 2 emissions
The term Scope 2 emissions means, with respect to an entity, indirect greenhouse gas emissions that are— (A) associated with the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam, when such electricity, heating and cooling, or steam is purchased or acquired for the entity’s own consumption; and
(B) emitted from sources other than sources that are owned or controlled by the entity. 
(5) Scope 3 emissions
The term Scope 3 emissions means, with respect to an entity, indirect greenhouse gas emissions, other than Scope 2 emissions, that are—
(A) a consequence of the operations of the entity; and (B) emitted from sources other than sources that are owned or controlled by the entity.
