1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Special Envoy for the Abraham Accords Act.2. Findings
Congress finds that the policy of the United States, as enacted in section 104 of the Israel Relations Normalization Act of 2022 (division Z of Public Law 117–103), with respect to the Abraham Accords remains unchanged.3. Special Envoy for the Abraham Accords
Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:64. Special Envoy for the Abraham Accords
(a) Special Envoy for the Abraham Accords
There is in the Department of State a Special Envoy for the Abraham Accords (in this section referred to as the Special Envoy).(b) Nomination

(1) In general
The Special Envoy shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Special Envoy shall report directly to the Secretary.
(2) Determination
If the President determines that such is appropriate, the President may nominate the Special Envoy from among officers and employees of the Department. Such officer or employee may not retain the position (or the responsibilities associated with such position) held by such officer or employee prior to the nomination of such officer or employee to the position of Special Envoy under this paragraph.(c) Qualifications
The Special Envoy should be a person of recognized distinction in the field high-level diplomatic experience, and or knowledge of the Islamic and Jewish worlds, knowledge of economics, security, and human rights.(d) Rank and status of ambassador
The Special Envoy who shall have the rank of ambassador and shall hold the office at the pleasure of the President.(e) Duties
The Special Envoy shall seek to expand and strengthen the Abraham Accords, in coordination with regional ambassadors, nongovernmental organizations, and other stakeholders determined appropriate by the Special Envoy.(f) Responsibilities
The Special Envoy shall—
(1) serve as the primary advisor to, and coordinate efforts across, the United States Government relating to expanding and strengthening the Abraham Accords;
(2) engage in discussions with nation-state officials lacking official diplomatic relations with Israel regarding the Abraham Accords; and
(3) consult with representatives of nongovernmental organizations that have attempted to expand and strengthen the Abraham Accords..