
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Baltic Security Initiative Act.  2. Baltic Security Initiative
 (a) Establishment
 
(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish and carry out an initiative, to be known as the Baltic Security Initiative, for the purpose of deepening security cooperation with the Baltic countries.

(2) Relationship to existing authorities
The initiative required by this subsection shall be carried out pursuant to the authorities of title 10, United States Code.   (b) Objectives
The objectives of the initiative required by subsection (a) shall be—

(1) to achieve United States national security objectives by— (A) deterring Russian aggression; and
(B) implementing NATO’s new Strategic Concept which seeks to strengthen the alliance’s deterrence and defense posture by denying potential adversaries any possible opportunities for aggression;  
(2) to enhance regional planning and cooperation among the Baltic countries, particularly with respect to long-term regional capability projects, including—
(A) long range precision fire systems and capabilities; (B) integrated air and missile defense;
(C) maritime domain awareness; (D) land forces development, including stockpiling large caliber ammunition;
(E) command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; (F) special operations forces development; 
(G) coordination with and security enhancements for Poland, which is a neighboring NATO ally; and (H) other military capabilities as determined by the Secretary of Defense; and

(3) to improve the Baltic countries’ cyber defenses and resilience to hybrid threats. (c) Strategy
 
(1) In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting forth a strategy of the Department of Defense to achieve the objectives described in subsection (b) of the initiative required by subsection (a).

(2) Considerations
The strategy required by this subsection shall include a consideration of— (A) current security assistance programs for the Baltic countries;
(B) the ongoing security threats to NATO’s eastern flank posed by Russian aggression, including as a result of the Russian Federation’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine with support from Belarus; and (C) the ongoing security threats to the Baltic countries posed by the presence, coercive economic policies, and other malign activities of the People’s Republic of China.
(d) Authorization of appropriations


(1) In general
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Defense $350,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2024, 2025, and 2026 to carry out the initiative required by subsection (a). 
(2) Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should seek to require matching funds from those Baltic countries that participate in the initiative required by subsection (a) in amounts commensurate with amounts provided by the Department of Defense under such initiative.
(e) Definitions
In this section— 
(1) the term Baltic countries means—
(A) Estonia; (B) Latvia; and
(C) Lithuania; and 
(2) the term NATO means the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  
