1. Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1) Dr. John Cheng lived in Laguna Niguel, California, and worked as a family practice and sports medicine physician.
(2) On May 15, 2022, Dr. Cheng was attending a reception at Geneva Presbyterian Church when a gunman motivated by political hatred against Taiwan entered the church and opened fire on the group of parishioners.
(3) Dr. Cheng tackled the gunman, allowing other parishioners to subdue the gunman and tie him up with extension cords.
(4) Dr. Cheng was shot several times during the struggle with the gunman, and he died from the injuries he sustained.
(5) The heroic actions of Dr. Cheng saved the lives of up to 40 parishioners and were the final acts of service for a man who devoted his life to helping others as a doctor and volunteer in his community.2. Congressional gold medal
(a) Presentation authorization
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Dr. John Cheng, a hero who died protecting others on May 15, 2022.(b) Design and striking
For the purposes of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the Secretary) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.(c) Disposition of medal
After the presentation described under subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to Dr. John Cheng’s wife.(d) Sense of Congress
It is the sense of the Congress that the United States Mint should expedite production of the gold medal under this Act, so that the sacrifice of Dr. Cheng can be recognized and honored in a timely manner.3. Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.4. National medals
Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for the purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.