1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Emergency and Disaster Preparedness for Farm Animals Act.2. Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1) American farms continue to experience devastating impacts from extreme weather events that have resulted in the death of millions of livestock and poultry in recent years.
(2) During 2020 and 2021, the United States experienced a record-breaking hurricane season, record-breaking heat waves and the hottest month on record, a record-breaking wildfire season, and record-breaking droughts across the county.
(3) Extreme weather events continue to become more frequent and severe, putting the country’s agriculture operations and livestock herds at increased risk.
(4) To help producers recover from weather-related losses, numerous Federal disaster assistance programs have been established that provide significant funding to compensate producers each year, but do not require emergency planning.
(5) Leading agricultural and animal health entities, including the Department of Agriculture, the American Veterinary Medical Association, and the World Organisation for Animal Health, as well as the Federal Emergency Management Agency, all recognize the importance of emergency planning and recommend the development of disaster preparedness plans on farms to help mitigate the impacts of extreme weather.
(6) As we continue to adapt to a rapidly changing climate, emergency planning requirements are necessary to help ensure farmers are prepared, financial losses are reduced, and farm animals are protected.3. Disaster preparedness plans required under certain disaster assistance programs
(a) Livestock indemnity payments
Section 1501(b) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting (other than a disaster preparedness plan under paragraph (5)) after management practice; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following:
(5) Special rule for payments due to adverse weather
(A) In general
An eligible producer may only receive a payment under this subsection for a loss described in paragraph (1)(B) if—(i) on a date before the 180-day period preceding such loss, the eligible producer submitted to the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency, an initial disaster preparedness plan; (ii) in the case of a disaster preparedness plan that was submitted to the Secretary on a date before the 2-year period preceding such loss, the producer submitted a renewal of such plan during such 2-year period; and (iii) not later than 30 days after such loss is incurred, the eligible producer provides to the Secretary a description of how the most recently submitted disaster preparedness plan was implemented on the farm to attempt to prevent such loss.(B) Elements
For purposes of subparagraph (A), a disaster preparedness plan shall include—(i) an adverse weather plan for each potential adverse weather event (based on the region the applicable farm is located and size of the farm) for each species of livestock on the farm; and(ii) such other information as the Secretary may require.(C) Publication
The Secretary shall make the plans received by the Secretary under subparagraph (A)(i) available to State or local agencies upon request. .(b) Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act
Section 333 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1983) is amended—
(1) by striking and at the end of paragraph (6);
(2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) and inserting ; and; and
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
(8) in the case of an emergency loan to replace livestock lost due to a natural disaster or major disaster or emergency designated by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), require the applicant to develop a disaster preparedness plan that includes an adverse weather plan for each potential adverse weather event (based on the region the applicable farm is located and size of the farm) for each species of livestock on the farm..(c) Effective date
This section, and the amendments made by this section, shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act. 