
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Launch Communications Act. 2. Access to spectrum for commercial space launches and reentries
 (a) Service rules; allocation
 
(1) In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall complete any proceeding in effect as of such date of enactment related to the adoption of service rules for access to the frequencies described in subsection (c) for commercial space launches and commercial space reentries, including technical specifications, eligibility requirements, coordination procedures to preserve the Nation’s defense capabilities, and the allocation on a secondary basis of the frequencies described in subsection (c).

(2) Coordination with National Telecommunications and Information Administration
The coordination procedures adopted under paragraph (1) shall include requirements for persons conducting commercial space launches and commercial space reentries to coordinate with the Assistant Secretary regarding access to the frequencies described in subsection (c) for commercial space launches and commercial space reentries. (b) Streamlining of process for granting authorizations
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall issue new regulations to streamline the process for granting authorizations for access to the frequencies described in subsection (c) for commercial space launches and commercial space reentries so as to provide for—

(1) authorizations that include access to such frequencies for multiple commercial space launches from one or more Federal space launch sites and multiple commercial space reentries to one or more Federal space launch sites; 
(2) authorizations that include access to such frequencies for multiple commercial space launches from one or more private space launch sites and multiple commercial space reentries to one or more private space launch sites;

(3) authorizations that include access to multiple uses of such frequencies for commercial space launch or commercial space reentry; 
(4) automation of the processes of the Commission to review applications for authorizations for access to such frequencies for commercial space launches and commercial space reentries; and

(5) improved coordination by the Commission with the Assistant Secretary (who shall coordinate with the heads of such other Federal agencies as the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate) to increase the speed of review of applications for authorizations for access to such frequencies for commercial space launches and commercial space reentries. (c) Frequencies described
The frequencies described in this subsection are the frequencies between 2025 and 2110 megahertz, between 2200 and 2290 megahertz, between 2360 and 2395 megahertz, and between 5650 and 5925 megahertz. 
(d) Rules of construction


(1) Frequency ranges
Each range of frequencies described in this section shall be construed to be inclusive of the upper and lower frequencies in the range. 
(2) Special temporary authority
Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize or require elimination or limitation of, or any amendment to, or otherwise to affect, special temporary authority, as provided for by section 1.931 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation).
(e) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Assistant Secretary
The term Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.

(2) Commercial space launch
The term commercial space launch means a launch licensed under chapter 509 of title 51, United States Code. 
(3) Commercial space reentry
The term commercial space reentry means a reentry licensed under chapter 509 of title 51, United States Code.

(4) Commission
The term Commission means the Federal Communications Commission. 