
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Flood Prevention and Snowpack Management Act. 2. Task force on California snowpack and flood mitigation
 (a) Establishment
The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, shall establish a task force to be known as the Task Force on the California Snowpack and Flood Mitigation (in this section referred to as the Task Force).
(b) Membership


(1) In general
The Task Force shall consist of 17 members, to be appointed by the Chief of Engineers, as follows: (A) 1 member of the Senate representing the State of California.
(B) 5 members of the House of Representatives, including— (i) 1 member who represents Northern California;
(ii) 1 member who represents Northern San Joaquin Valley; (iii) 1 member who represents Central San Joaquin Valley;
(iv) 1 member who represents Southern San Joaquin Valley; and (v) 1 member who represents Southern California.
(C) A representative of the Corps of Engineers. (D) A representative of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(E) A representative of the Bureau of Reclamation. (F) A representative of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(G) A representative of the California Office of Emergency Services. (H) A representative of the California Department of Water Resources.
(I) 4 members from local community organizations that are impacted by, or provide resources or relief to individuals impacted by, flooding in California. (J) A representative of Tribal communities in California.

(2) Chairperson; Vice Chairperson
The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Task Force shall be elected by the members of the Task Force. (c) Meetings
 
(1) Initial meeting
The Task Force shall meet on the day after any day on which the California Department of Resources determines that any portion of the snowpack in California is 150 percent above the average snowpack in California.

(2) Subsequent meetings
After conducting the initial meeting described under paragraph (1), the Task Force shall meet on a periodic basis until the plan of action required under subsection (d) is complete.  (d) Duties
The duties of the Task Force shall be to—

(1) examine and assess the risks posed by the snowpack in California; 
(2) assess what local, State, and Federal actions may be taken to mitigate such risks; and

(3) not later than 90 days after conducting an initial meeting under subsection (c)(1), develop a plan of action for snowpack melt, flood mitigation and recovery, and expediting water storage projects to capture water from the snowpack and alleviate future drought conditions. (e) Report
Upon completion of a plan of action under subsection (d), the Task Force shall submit each such plan of action to—

(1) the Governor of California; 
(2) the California Office of Emergency Services;

(3) the California Department of Water Resources; 
(4) the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;

(5) the Chief of Engineers; 
(6) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and

(7) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.  