1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Stop the Import of Fentanyl Act of 2023.  National Center to Stop the Import of Illicit Synthetic Drugs
(a) Establishment
There is within the Drug Enforcement Administration a National Center to Stop the Import of Illicit Synthetic Drugs (hereinafter referred to as the National Center). (b) Director of National Center To Stop the Import of Illicit Synthetic Drugs

(1) In general
There is a Director of the National Center, who shall be the head of the National Center, and who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(2) No simultaneous appointment
The Director of the National Center may not simultaneously serve in any other capacity in the executive branch. (c) Report and briefing required

(1) Report required
Not later than 90 days after date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of the National Center shall submit to the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration a report including—(A) an overview of how synthetic drugs come into the United States;(B) a strategic plan of action on each of its primary missions under subsection (d); and(C) identification of necessary resources from agencies and Congress to accomplish the primary missions under subsection (d).
(2) Brief required
Not later than 90 days after date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of the National Center shall provide a brief to Congress on the report required under paragraph (1). (d) Primary missions
The primary missions of the National Center shall be as follows:
(1) To serve as the primary organization in the United States Government for analyzing, tracking, and halting the movement of synthetic drugs domestically, particularly as it relates to the trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl analogues, and precursor chemicals to produce fentanyl. 
(2) To serve as the primary organization in the United States Government for tracking the movements of persons trafficking in the synthetic drug trade in the United States and overseas through intelligence gathering, in cooperation with other agencies, including:(A) The Drug Enforcement Administration.(B) The Department of Justice.(C) The Department of State.(D) The Federal Bureau of Investigations.(E) The Internal Revenue Service.(F) The Department of the Treasury.(G) The National Security Agency.(H) The Central Intelligence Agency.(I) The United States Postal Service.(J) The Department of Homeland Security.(K) The United States Customs and Border Patrol.(L) The Office of National Drug Control Policy.(M) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
(3) To collect and share information with the agencies identified under paragraph (2) to identify and disrupt the movement of fentanyl from an original source to a consumer. 
(4) To develop a strategic plan to lead agencies, as appropriate, in the execution of efforts to break up the synthetic drug trade, including assigning roles and responsibilities to such agencies. 
(5) To ensure that agencies, as appropriate, have access to and receive information from other agencies, needed to execute their efforts to break up the synthetic drug trade or perform independent, alternative analysis of the synthetic drug trade. 
(6) To ensure that agencies have access to and receive intelligence needed to accomplish any activities assigned to such agency pursuant to this subsection. 
(7) To serve as the central and shared knowledge bank on known and suspected drug trafficking organizations, both foreign and domestic, including such organization’s strategies, capabilities, and networks of contacts and support.
(8) To trace the sale proceeds of the synthetic drug trade, to identify the interests of drug trafficking organizations and persons trafficking in the synthetic drug trade and reveal any network that facilities such trade. (e) Duties and responsibilities of Director
The Director shall:
(1) Serve in the President’s cabinet as the principal advisor to the President on the synthetic drug trade.
(2) Provide strategic operational plans for efforts of the United States Government to effectively break up the synthetic drug trade, both foreign and domestic. 
(3) Advise the Secretary of State on intelligence gathered related to the synthetic drug trade in foreign countries. 
(4) Support relevant agencies in their efforts to break up the synthetic drug trade. 
(5) Testify before the appropriate Congressional committees annually.(f) Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit the action of any person acting in compliance with State law relating to the manufacture, production, possession, distribution, dispensation, administration, or delivery of cannabis.(g) Sunset

(1) In general
The National Center shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) Additional time period
The President may authorize the National Center to operate for an additional two years after the date of termination under paragraph (1). (h) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Agency
The term agency shall have the meaning given such term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. 
(2) Appropriate Congressional committees
The term appropriate Congressional committees means the—(A) Financial Services Committee of the House of Representatives;(B) Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;(C) Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and (D) Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives. 
(3) Drug trafficking organization
The term drug trafficking organization means a complex organization with highly defined command-and-control structures that produce, transport, or distribute large quantities of one or more synthetic drugs.
(4) Persons trafficking in the synthetic drug trade
The term persons trafficking in the synthetic drug trade means a person that plays a role in the synthetic drug trade.
(5) Synthetic drug trade
The term synthetic drug trade means any illicit activity to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance, or transport synthetic drugs, or otherwise endeavor or attempt to do so, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others to do so.