
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Testing, Rapid Analysis, and Narcotic Quality Research Act or the TRANQ Research Act.  2. Xylazine detection and analysis
 (a) In general
The Director shall—

(1) support NIST intramural basic measurement science and research to advance— (A) analytical methods to identify, understand, differentiate, and categorize illicit drugs containing xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, or other emerging substances of concern;
(B) measurement technologies to shorten analysis timelines and enhance narcotic and opioid detection and analysis capabilities in illicit drugs; (C) new data tools, techniques, and processes to identify and publicly disclose relevant information concerning illicit drugs containing xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, or other emerging substances of concern; and
(D) all other areas determined by the Director to be critical to the development and deployment of technologies to measure and analyze the presence of xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, and other emerging substances of concern in illicit drugs; 
(2) support activities to inform and expand the development of near-real time spectrometry capabilities regarding xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, and other emerging compounds in illicit drugs;

(3) convene the private sector, institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, Federal laboratories, and other Federal agencies engaged in the analysis of illicit drugs to develop coordinated strategies and voluntary best practices for the safe handling, transport, and analysis of illicit drugs containing xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, or other emerging substances of concern; 
(4) establish or expand collaborative partnerships or consortia with other government agencies engaged in counternarcotic research and development, institutions of higher education, Federal laboratories, and the private sector to enhance narcotic and opioid detection and analysis capabilities regarding xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, and other emerging substances of concern in illicit drugs; and

(5) provide opportunities for graduate and postgraduate research on the detection and identification of xylazine, novel synthetic opioids, and other emerging substances of concern in illicit drugs. (b) Controls
In carrying out activities authorized under this section, the Director shall ensure proper security controls are implemented to protect sensitive information, as appropriate.
(c) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Director
The term Director means the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology.

(2) Federal laboratory
The term Federal laboratory has the meaning given such term in section 4 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3703). 
(3) Institution of higher education
The term institution of higher education has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (19 U.S.C. 1001).

(4) NIST
The term NIST means the National Institute of Standards and Technology. 
(5) Nonprofit organization
The term nonprofit organization means an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such code.

(6) Xylazine
The term xylazine means the nonopioid tranquilizer methyl benzene compound frequently used in veterinary medicine as an emetic and sedative with analgesic and muscle relaxant properties.  