1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Federal Agent Responsibility Act.2. Prohibition on no-knock raids
(a) Prohibition against financial aid or material aid and support
A Federal law enforcement officer or anyone employed by a Federal law enforcement agency shall not provide financial aid or material aid and support in furtherance of the execution of a non-Federal warrant requested by a law enforcement agency of a State or unit of local government.(b) Medicine and other materials in support
For purposes of this Act, a Federal law enforcement officer shall not be considered to have provided financial aid or material aid and support in the execution of a non-Federal warrant if such officer—
(1) gives or allows the use of medicine or other materials necessary to treat physical injuries; or
(2) helps a person escape a risk of a serious, imminent life-threatening injury. 3. Exception for serious, imminent life-threatening injuries; report
(a) Certain circumstances
A Federal law enforcement officer may forcibly enter a location subject to a Federal or non-Federal warrant, in less than 30 seconds, if there is a threat or risk of serious, imminent life-threatening injury to a law enforcement officer or others, and the law enforcement officer who enters provides a formal written report detailing such need to the judicial official responsible for authorizing the Federal or non-Federal warrant. (b) Report required
Any report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted to the judicial official responsible for authorizing the Federal or non-Federal warrant not more 14 days after the date on which such warrant was executed. 4. Definitions
In this Act:
(1) Federal law enforcement agency
The term Federal law enforcement agency means any agency of the United States authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of any violation of Federal criminal law.
(2) Federal law enforcement officer
The term Federal law enforcement officer has the meaning given in section 115 of title 18, United States Code.
(3) Federal warrant
The term Federal warrant means a warrant authorizing a search by a Federal law enforcement officer or personnel of a Federal law enforcement agency.
(4) Material aid and support
The term material aid and support means voluntarily giving or allowing others to make use of lodging, communications equipment or services, facilities, weapons, personnel, vehicles, clothing, or other physical assets. 
(5) Non-federal warrant
The term non-Federal warrant means a warrant authorizing a search executing an ex parte judicial order to confiscate a firearm by a law enforcement officer or a law enforcement agency affiliated with a State or unit of local government.