
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the 9–8–8 Lifeline Cybersecurity Responsibility Act.  2. Protecting suicide prevention lifeline from cybersecurity incidents
 (a) Suicide prevention lifeline
Section 520E–3(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb–36c(b)) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (4), by striking and at the end; 
(2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:  
(6) coordinating with the Chief Information Security Officer of the Department of Health and Human Services to take such steps as may be necessary to ensure the program is protected from cybersecurity incidents and eliminates known cybersecurity vulnerabilities..
(b) Reporting
Section 520E–3 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb–36c) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and

(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:   (f) Cybersecurity reporting
 
(1) In general
The program’s network administrator receiving Federal funding pursuant to subsection (a) shall report to the Assistant Secretary, in a manner that protects personal privacy, consistent with applicable Federal and State privacy laws—
(A) any identified cybersecurity vulnerabilities to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline; and (B) any identified cybersecurity incidents or potential incidents to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline.

(2) Notification
If an entity described in paragraph (1) discovers a cybersecurity vulnerability, incident, or potential incident, such entity shall immediately report that discovery to the Assistant Secretary. 
(3) Clarification
The cybersecurity incident reporting requirements under this subsection shall supplement, and not supplant, cybersecurity incident reporting requirements under other provisions of applicable Federal law that are in effect on the date of the enactment of the 9–8–8 Lifeline Cybersecurity Responsibility Act..
(c) Study
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall— 
(1) conduct and complete a study that evaluates cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities associated with the 9–8–8 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline; and

(2) submit a report of the findings of such study to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate. 