
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the American Battlefield Protection Program Enhancement Act. 2. American battlefield protection program improvements
 (a) Definitions
Section 308101 of title 54, United States Code, is amended to read as follows: 

308101. Definitions
In this chapter: 
(1) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary, acting through the American Battlefield Protection Program.

(2) Battlefield Reports
The term Battlefield Reports means, collectively— (A) the document entitled Report on the Nation’s Civil War Battlefields, prepared by the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission, and dated July 1993; and
(B) the document entitled Report to Congress on the Historic Preservation of Revolutionary War and War of 1812 Sites in the United States, prepared by the National Park Service, and dated September 2007.. (b) Preservation assistance
Section 308102(a) of title 54, United States Code, is amended by striking Federal and all that follows through organizations and inserting Federal agencies, States, Tribes, local governments, other public entities, educational institutions, and nonprofit organizations. 
(c) Battlefield Land Acquisition Grants Improvements
Section 308103 of title 54, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:

(a) Eligible site defined
In this section, the term eligible site— 
(1) means a site that—
(A) is not within the exterior boundaries of a unit of the National Park System; and (B) is identified in the Battlefield Reports as a battlefield; and

(2) excludes sites identified in the Battlefield Reports as associated historic sites.  ;  
(2) in subsection (b), by striking State and local governments and inserting States, Tribes, local governments, and nonprofit organizations; and

(3) in subsection (c), by striking State or local government and inserting State, Tribe, or local government.   (d) Battlefield Restoration Grants Improvements
Section 308105 of title 54, United States Code, is amended—

(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:  (a) Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a battlefield restoration grant program (referred to in this section as the program) under which the Secretary may provide grants to States, Tribes, local governments, and nonprofit organizations for projects that restore day-of-battle conditions on—

(1) land preserved and protected under the battlefield acquisition grant program established under section 308103(b); or 
(2) battlefield land that is—
(A) owned by a State, Tribe, local government, or nonprofit organization; and (B) referred to in the Battlefield Reports.; and

(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:   (b) Eligible sites
The Secretary may make grants under this section for Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil War battlefield sites—

(1) eligible for assistance under the battlefield acquisition grant program established under section 308103(b); or 
(2) on battlefield land that is—
(A) owned by a State, Tribe, local government, or nonprofit organization; and (B) referred to in the Battlefield Reports..
(e) Updates and improvements
Chapter 3081 of title 54, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  308106. Updates and improvements to Battlefield Reports
 Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, and every 10 years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that updates the Battlefield Reports to reflect—

(1) preservation activities carried out at the battlefields in the period since the publication of the most recent Battlefield Reports update; 
(2) changes in the condition, including core and study areas, of the battlefields during that period; and

(3) any other relevant developments relating to the battlefields during that period.. (f) Clerical amendment
The table of sections for chapter 3081 of title 54, United States Code, is amended as follows:

(1) By amending the item relating to section 308101 to read as follows:    308101. Definitions. 
(2) By adding at the end the following:


308106. Updates and improvements to Battlefield Reports.
