
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Home Dialysis Risk Prevention Act. 2. Providing for coverage of monitoring and alarm devices to detect venous needle dislodgement for hemodialysis patients
Section 1881(b)(14) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395rr(b)(14)) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

(J) 
(i) For home dialysis services and equipment furnished to new and respite individuals on or after the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph which are monitoring and alarm devices for venous needle dislodgement (as defined in clause (iii)(II)), the Secretary shall increase the single payment that would otherwise apply under this paragraph for such services by the amount determined under the payment system established under clause (ii).  (ii) The Secretary shall establish a prospective payment system through regulations to determine the amounts payable for monitoring and alarm devices and supplies to detect venous needle dislodgements for individuals receiving home dialysis. In establishing such system, the Secretary may consult with device manufacturers, health professionals, dialysis patients, private payers, and MA plans and may consider—
(I) the costs of furnishing the monitoring and alarm device and necessary supplies; (II) payment amounts for similar items and services under parts A and B; and
(III) payment amounts established by MA plans under part C, group health plans, and health insurance coverage offered by health insurance issuers. (iii) In this subparagraph:
(I) The term new and respite individual means an individual described in subsection (a) who is initiating home hemodialysis. (II) The term monitoring and alarm devices for venous needle dislodgement means a blood loss detection solution specifically designed to detect blood leakage through core technology utilizing fiber optics. The detected blood triggers a visual and audible alarm.
(III) The terms group health plan, health insurance coverage, and health insurance issuer have the meaning given such terms in section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act.. 