1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Captain James A. Lovell, Jr., Congressional Gold Medal Act.2. Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1) In 1952, James A. Lovell, Jr., graduated from the Naval Academy and served with distinction in the U.S. Navy as a fighter pilot, later making important contributions as a test pilot.
(2) As a crew member for the Gemini 7 mission and Commander for the Gemini 12 mission, Lovell played a critical role in these missions which were critical steps towards making the later Apollo lunar missions possible.
(3) On December 21, 1968, Apollo 8 launched from Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39A, destined for lunar orbit. Lovell, William Anders, and Frank Borman became the first humans to reach the Moon’s orbit; Apollo 8 successfully completed ten orbits around the Moon and safely returned to Earth on December 27, 1968.
(4) On April 11, 1970, Apollo 13, commanded by Lovell, with Jack Swigert as command module pilot and Fred Haise as lunar module pilot, launched from Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39A with the intention to be the third mission in history to land humans on the Moon.
(5) Two days into the mission, an explosion occurred, depleting the command module’s air tanks, and leaving the ship with disruptions in water, electricity, fuel, and light supplies, with support and guidance from ground personnel, Lovell, Haise, and Swigert had to modify the ship’s life support systems and change Apollo 13’s course to circle around the Moon before heading back to Earth.
(6) Lovell handwrote the orientation calculations transferring them from the command module to the lunar module guidance system allowing the ship to stay on the correct trajectory.
(7) The three astronauts aboard Apollo 13 survived on rations of water in freezing temperatures for four days in the lunar module while the ship traveled back towards Earth.
(8) On April 17, 1970, in large thanks to Lovell’s leadership and NASA’s ingenuity, Apollo 13 reentered Earth’s atmosphere and safely splashed down in the Pacific Ocean after a treacherous and uncertain journey back to Earth.
(9) The bravery, skill, and courage of the Apollo 13 astronauts, under the extraordinary leadership of Captain Lovell united the American people and reinvigorated interest in the Nation’s space program.
(10) President Nixon awarded Lovell, Haise, and Swigert with the Presidential Medal of Freedom for their heroic work.
(11) Lovell went on to have a successful business career, becoming the CEO of Bay-Houston Towing Company, President of Fisk Telephone Systems, Executive Vice President of Centel Corporation in Chicago, and starting a restaurant with his family in Lake Forest, Illinois.
(12) Throughout his life, Lovell was a strong and effective advocate for science, the study of space, and the power of space exploration. 
(13) Lovell continues to be an example of strength and wisdom in his community and throughout the country.3. Congressional Gold Medal
(a) Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Captain James Arthur Lovell, Jr., in recognition of his service to our Nation and most notably, his leadership, bravery, and general significance to the advancement of United States space exploration.(b) Design and striking
For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the Secretary) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.4. Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.5. Status of medals
(a) National medals
The medal struck pursuant to this Act is a national medal for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.(b) Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.6. Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a) Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.(b) Proceeds of sale
The amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 3 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.