1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day Act of 2023.2. Designation
(a) Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day

(1) In general
Chapter 1 of title 36, United States Code, is amended—(A) by redesignating the second section 146 (relating to Choose Respect Day) as section 147; and(B) by adding at the end the following:148. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day
The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation—
(1) designating a day as Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day; and
(2) calling on the people of the United States to observe Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day with appropriate ceremonies and activities..
(2) Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections for chapter 1 of title 36, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the second section 146 and inserting the following:147. Choose Respect Day.148. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day..(b) Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag

(1) In general
Chapter 9 of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 904. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag
(a) Designation
The Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag championed by the Bring Our Families Home Campaign is designated as the symbol of the commitment of the United States to recognizing citizens of the United States held as hostages or wrongfully detained abroad.(b) Required display

(1) In general
The Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag shall be displayed at the locations specified in paragraph (2) on the days specified in paragraph (3).
(2) Locations specified
The locations specified in this paragraph are the following:(A) The Capitol.(B) The White House.(C) The buildings containing the official office of—(i) the Secretary of State; and(ii) the Secretary of Defense.
(3) Days specified
The days specified in this paragraph are the following:(A) Flag Day, June 14.(B) Independence Day, July 4.(C) Any other day on which a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States—(i) returns to the United States from being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad; or(ii) dies while being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad.
(4) Display to Be in a Manner Visible to the Public
Display of the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag pursuant to this section shall be in a manner designed to ensure visibility to the public.
(5) Limitation
This section may not be construed or applied so as to require any employee to report to work solely for the purpose of providing for the display of the Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag..
(2) Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections for chapter 9 of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:904. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Flag..