
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Taiwan Cybersecurity Resiliency Act of 2023. 2. Military cybersecurity cooperation with Taiwan
 (a) Requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and in coordination with the Commander of the United States Cyber Command and the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, shall seek to engage the Government of Taiwan for the purpose of expanding cooperation on military cybersecurity activities.
(b) Cooperation efforts
In expanding the cooperation of military cybersecurity activities between the Department of Defense and the Government of Taiwan under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may carry out efforts to— 
(1) actively defend military networks, infrastructure, and systems; 

(2) eradicate malicious cyber activity that has compromised such networks, infrastructure, and systems; 
(3) leverage United States commercial and military cybersecurity technology and services to harden and defend such networks, infrastructure, and systems; and

(4) conduct combined cybersecurity training activities and exercises. (c) Briefings
 
(1) Requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the implementation of this section.

(2) Contents
The briefing under paragraph (1) shall include the following: (A) A description of the feasibility and advisability of expanding cooperation on military cybersecurity activities between the Department of Defense and the Government of Taiwan. 
(B) An identification of any challenges and resources necessary to be addressed so as to expand such cooperation. (C) An overview of efforts undertaken pursuant to this section.
(D) Any other matters the Secretary determines relevant.  (d) Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—

(1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and  
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
