
1. Waiver for national security or energy security

(a) Clean Air Act requirements


(1) In general
If the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, determines that, by reason of a sudden increase in demand for, or a shortage of, a critical energy resource, or another cause, the processing or refining of a critical energy resource at a critical energy resource facility is necessary to meet the national security or energy security needs of the United States, then the Administrator may, with or without notice, hearing, or other report, issue a temporary waiver of any requirement under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) with respect to such critical energy resource facility that, in the judgment of the Administrator, will allow for such processing or refining at such critical energy resource facility as necessary to best meet such needs and serve the public interest.   
(2) Conflict with other environmental laws
The Administrator shall ensure that any waiver of a requirement under the Clean Air Act under this subsection, to the maximum extent practicable, does not result in a conflict with a requirement of any other applicable Federal, State, or local environmental law or regulation and minimizes any adverse environmental impacts.

(3) Violations of other environmental laws
To the extent any omission or action taken by a party under a waiver issued under this subsection is in conflict with any requirement of a Federal, State, or local environmental law or regulation, such omission or action shall not be considered a violation of such environmental law or regulation, or subject such party to any requirement, civil or criminal liability, or a citizen suit under such environmental law or regulation.  
(4) Expiration and renewal of waivers
A waiver issued under this subsection shall expire not later than 90 days after it is issued. The Administrator may renew or reissue such waiver pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) for subsequent periods, not to exceed 90 days for each period, as the Administrator determines necessary to meet the national security or energy security needs described in paragraph (1) and serve the public interest. In renewing or reissuing a waiver under this paragraph, the Administrator shall include in any such renewed or reissued waiver such conditions as are necessary to minimize any adverse environmental impacts to the extent practicable.

(5) Subsequent action by court
If a waiver issued under this subsection is subsequently stayed, modified, or set aside by a court pursuant a provision of law, any omission or action previously taken by a party under the waiver while the waiver was in effect shall remain subject to paragraph (3). 
(6) Critical energy resource; critical energy resource facility defined
The terms critical energy resource and critical energy resource facility have the meanings given such terms in section 3025(f) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (as added by this section).
(b) Solid Waste Disposal Act requirements


(1) Hazardous Waste Management
The Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 3024 the following:  3025. Waivers for critical energy resource facilities
 (a) In general
If the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, determines that, by reason of a sudden increase in demand for, or a shortage of, a critical energy resource, or another cause, the processing or refining of a critical energy resource at a critical energy resource facility is necessary to meet the national security or energy security needs of the United States, then the Administrator may, with or without notice, hearing, or other report, issue a temporary waiver of any covered requirement with respect to such critical energy resource facility that, in the judgment of the Administrator, will allow for such processing or refining at such critical energy resource facility as necessary to best meet such needs and serve the public interest.  
(b) Conflict with other environmental laws
The Administrator shall ensure that any waiver of a covered requirement under this section, to the maximum extent practicable, does not result in a conflict with a requirement of any other applicable Federal, State, or local environmental law or regulation and minimizes any adverse environmental impacts. (c) Violations of other environmental laws
To the extent any omission or action taken by a party under a waiver issued under this section is in conflict with any requirement of a Federal, State, or local environmental law or regulation, such omission or action shall not be considered a violation of such environmental law or regulation, or subject such party to any requirement, civil or criminal liability, or a citizen suit under such environmental law or regulation. 
(d) Expiration and renewal of waivers
A waiver issued under this section shall expire not later than 90 days after it is issued. The Administrator may renew or reissue such waiver pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) for subsequent periods, not to exceed 90 days for each period, as the Administrator determines necessary to meet the national security or energy security needs described in subsection (a) and serve the public interest. In renewing or reissuing a waiver under this subsection, the Administrator shall include in any such renewed or reissued waiver such conditions as are necessary to minimize any adverse environmental impacts to the extent practicable. (e) Subsequent action by court
If a waiver issued under this section is subsequently stayed, modified, or set aside by a court pursuant a provision of law, any omission or action previously taken by a party under the waiver while the waiver was in effect shall remain subject to subsection (c).
(f) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Covered requirement
The term covered requirement means—
(A) any standard established under section 3002, 3003, or 3004; (B) the permit requirement under section 3005; or
(C) any other requirement of this Act, as the Administrator determines appropriate.  
(2) Critical energy resource
The term critical energy resource means, as determined by the Secretary of Energy, any energy resource—
(A) that is essential to the energy sector and energy systems of the United States; and (B) the supply chain of which is vulnerable to disruption.

(3) Critical energy resource facility
The term critical energy resource facility means a facility that processes or refines a critical energy resource. . 
(2) Table of contents
The table of contents of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3024 the following:


Sec. 3025. Waivers for critical energy resource facilities..
