
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Improving Public Health Preparedness Act. 2. Transfer of full responsibility for administering the Strategic National Stockpile to ASPR
 (a) Transfer
 
(1) In general
Section 319F–2(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)(1)) is amended by striking The Secretary, in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and inserting The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, in coordination with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Secretary of Homeland Security.

(2) Conforming amendment
Section 319F–2(a)(3)(E) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)(3)(E)) is amended by striking the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response,. 
(3) Pilot program to support State medical stockpiles
Section 319F–2(i)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(i)(1)) is amended by striking The Secretary, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and inserting The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, in consultation with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

(4) Transition
The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that, not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the amendments made by this subsection are fully implemented, including any necessary transfer of personnel and resources. (b) ASPR authorities
 
(1) Additional coordination duty
Section 2811(b)(4) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:

(K) Strategic National Stockpile
Coordinate with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Secretary of Homeland Security regarding the maintenance and operation of, and procurement and contracting related to, the Strategic National Stockpile under section 319F–2. . 
(2) Additional responsibility
 (A) In general
Section 2811(c)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(c)(2)) is amended—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and (F) as subparagraphs (F) and (G), respectively; and (ii) by inserting after subaragraph (D) the following:

(E) the Strategic National Stockpile pursuant to section 319F–2;. (B) Conforming change
Section 2811(c)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(c)(3)) is amended—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting and after the semicolon; (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
(iii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).  