
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Ralph David Abernathy, Sr. National Historic Site Act. 2. Ralph David Abernathy, Sr. National Historic Site
 (a) Definitions
In this Act:

(1) Map
The term Map means the map entitled Ralph David Abernathy, Sr. National Historic Site Proposed Boundary, numbered P99/184,019, and dated August 2022. 
(2) Historic site
The term Historic Site means the Ralph David Abernathy, Sr. National Historic Site established by subsection (b).

(3) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior. 
(4) State
The term State means the State of Georgia.
(b) Establishment


(1) In general
Subject to paragraph (2), there is established the Ralph David Abernathy, Sr. National Historic Site in the State of Georgia as a unit of the National Park System to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of present and future generations— (A) the site where the Reverend Dr. Abernathy served as pastor during the height of the modern civil rights movement, the historic West Hunter Street Baptist Church; and
(B) the role of Dr. Abernathy as an internationally recognized civil rights leader. 
(2) Determination by the secretary
The Historic Site shall not be established until the date on which the Secretary determines that a sufficient quantity of land and interests in land have been acquired to constitute a manageable park unit.

(3) Notice
Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary makes a determination under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the establishment of the Historic Site. (c) Boundary
The boundary of the Historic Site shall be the boundary generally depicted as Proposed Boundary on the Map.
(d) Availability of map
The Map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service. (e) Acquisition of land
 
(1) In general
Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may acquire land and interests in land within the boundary of the Historic Site by—
(A) donation; (B) purchase from a willing seller with donated or appropriated funds; or
(C) exchange. 
(2) Limitation
Any land or interests in land owned by the State or a political subdivision of the State may be acquired for inclusion in the Historic Site only by donation.
(f) Administration
The Secretary shall administer the Historic Site in accordance with— 
(1) this section; and

(2) the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including— (A) sections 100101(a), 100751(a), 100752, and 100753 of title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapters 1003 and 3201 of title 54, United States Code. (g) Management plan
Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available to carry out this Act, the Secretary shall complete a management plan for the Historic Site in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
(h) Agreements
Within or outside the boundaries of the Historic Site, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements, leases, or other agreements, as appropriate, with the State or other entities to provide and facilitate interpretive and educational services, administrative support, and technical assistance related to the Historic Site, including— 
(1) the placement of directional and interpretive signage;

(2) exhibits; 
(3) parking and other administrative needs;

(4) technology-based interpretive devices; 
(5) public interpretation and tours; and

(6) the preservation of historic and cultural resources. 