
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the One Citizen One Vote Act. 2. Prohibiting payments to States failing to meet election integrity and certainty standards
 (a) Prohibition
Title IX of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21141 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

907. Prohibiting payments to States and jurisdictions failing to meet election integrity and certainty standards
The Commission may not make any payment under this Act to any State or jurisdiction unless the State or jurisdiction certifies to the Commission each of the following: 
(1) The State or jurisdiction does not permit an individual to cast a ballot in an election for Federal office unless—
(A) in the case of an individual who desires to cast a ballot in person, the individual presents to the appropriate election official a current and valid photo identification of the individual; or (B) in the case of an individual who desires to cast a ballot by mail, the individual includes with the ballot a copy of a current and valid photo identification of the individual.

(2) The State or jurisdiction does not accept a voted absentee ballot in an election for Federal office which is delivered in person to an election official by any individual other than the voter to whom the ballot was transmitted, other than an individual described as follows: (A) An election official while engaged in official duties as authorized by law.
(B) An employee of the United States Postal Service while engaged in official duties as authorized by law. (C) Any other individual who is allowed by law to collect and transmit United States mail, while engaged in official duties as authorized by law.

(3) The State or jurisdiction does not provide any drop box into which an individual may deliver a voted ballot, other than a drop box which is located at the office of a State or local election official. 
(4) The State or jurisdiction does not deliver an absentee or other mail-in ballot to any individual who does not request the delivery of such a ballot.

(5) The State or jurisdiction does not permit any individual who is not a citizen of the United States to register to vote or vote in any election for public office, or any ballot initiative or referendum, held in the State or jurisdiction.. (b) Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to title IX the following:


Sec. 907. Prohibiting payments to States and jurisdictions failing to meet election integrity and certainty standards..
(c) Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to payments made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. 