
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Improving the Federal Response to Organized Retail Crime Act of 2023. 2. Improving coordination in Federal investigation of organized retail crime
 (a) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Postmaster General, and the head of each relevant agency shall develop a strategy to identify how each such relevant agency can coordinate with other relevant agencies to—

(1) improve information sharing between the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Commissioner of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Executive Associate Director of Homeland Security Investigations, the Director of the Secret Service, the Postmaster General, and the head of each relevant agency on organized retail crime networks; 
(2) assist State and local law enforcement in compiling materials and evidence necessary for prosecution of organized retail crime; and 

(3) increase cooperation and information sharing between each such relevant agency and the retail industry, State retail crime task forces, and other retail crime task forces. (b) Reporting requirement
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Postmaster General, and the head of each relevant agency shall submit a joint report to the relevant committees on the strategy developed pursuant to subsection (a).
(c) Comptroller General report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall publish a report on coordination between the private sector and law enforcement to deter and investigate organized retail crime. (d) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Organized retail crime
The term organized retail crime means the coordinated illegal acquisition of retail goods through theft, embezzlement, fraud, or other means that are illegal under Federal or State law for the purpose of selling or distributing such goods in interstate commerce.  
(2) Organized retail crime network
The term organized retail crime network means a criminal network that engages in organized retail crime. 

(3) Relevant agency
The term relevant agency means any agency (as defined in section 551 of title 5, United States Code) determined by the Attorney General and Secretary of Homeland Security to have a role in information sharing and investigation of organized retail crime. 
(4) Relevant committees
The term relevant committees means the House Committee on the Judiciary, the House Committee on Homeland Security, the House Committee on Oversight and Accountability, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. 
