
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the American Confidence in Elections: District of Columbia Election Fraud Prevention Act. 2. Requirements for voter registration with respect to District of Columbia elections
 (a) Requirements
Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is amended—

(1) by redesignating sections 304 and 305 as sections 305 and 306, respectively; and 
(2) by inserting after section 303 the following new section:

304. Ban on collection and transmission of ballots by certain third parties in a District of Columbia election

(a) In general
The District of Columbia may not permit an individual to knowingly collect and transmit a ballot in a District of Columbia election that was mailed to another person, other than an individual described as follows: 
(1) An election official while engaged in official duties as authorized by law.

(2) An employee of the United States Postal Service or other commercial common carrier engaged in similar activities while engaged in duties authorized by law. 
(3) Any other individual who is allowed by law to collect and transmit United States mail, while engaged in official duties as authorized by law.

(4) A family member, household member, or caregiver of the person to whom the ballot was mailed. (b) Definitions
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) With respect to a person to whom the ballot was mailed— (A) the term caregiver means an individual who provides medical or health care assistance to such person in a residence, nursing care institution, hospice facility, assisted living center, assisted living facility, assisted living home, residential care institution, adult day health care facility, or adult foster care home; 
(B) the term family member means an individual who is related to such person by blood, marriage, adoption or legal guardianship; and (C) the term household member means an individual who resides at the same residence as such person.

(2) The term District of Columbia election means any election for public office in the District of Columbia, including an election for Federal office, and any ballot initiative or referendum.  . (b) Conforming amendment relating to enforcement
Section 401 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21111) is amended by striking and 303 and inserting 303, and 304.
(c) Clerical amendment
The table of contents of such Act is amended— 
(1) by redesignating the items relating to sections 304 and 305 as relating to sections 305 and 306, respectively; and

(2) by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the following new item:   Sec. 304. Ban on collection and transmission of ballots by certain third parties in a District of Columbia election.. 