1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Working Families Task Force Act of 2023.2. Interagency task force
(a) Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Education, Housing and Urban Development, Commerce, the Treasury, Transportation, and Agriculture, shall establish an Interagency National Task Force on Working Families (in this Act referred to as the Task Force). (b) Membership
The Task Force shall be composed of not fewer than 10 members and shall include representatives designated by the relevant Secretaries from each of the following Federal agencies: 
(1) The Department of Labor.
(2) The Department of Health and Human Services.
(3) The Department of Education.
(4) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(5) The Department of Commerce.
(6) The Department of the Treasury.
(7) The Department of Transportation.
(8) The Department of Agriculture.(c) Meetings

(1) In general
The Task Force shall meet not less than 1 time per quarter per calendar year.
(2) Quorum
Two-thirds of the members of the Task Force shall constitute a quorum.(d) Purpose
The purpose of the Task Force shall be to—
(1) examine the challenges facing working families; and
(2) issue recommendations to improve the standard of living and quality of life for working families.(e) Duties
The duties of the Task Force shall include the following:
(1) Identifying and evaluating key factors that impact the standard of living and quality of life for working families, including—(A) addressing affordability challenges related to various economic conditions, including inflation;(B) improving access to quality jobs with livable wages and strong labor standards;(C) expanding affordable child care for all families;(D) improving incentives, including tax policies such as the child tax credit and earned income tax credit, that assist children and families;(E) supporting home care and medical care for seniors and families that need assistance;(F) accessing quality, affordable housing;(G) reducing barriers to economic mobility;(H) expanding educational and workforce training opportunities; and(I) increasing financial literacy and access to financial services.
(2) Assessing the effectiveness of current Federal policies and programs in helping working families achieve an improved standard of living and quality of life.
(3) Developing policy recommendations to enhance the efforts of Federal agencies and Congress to empower working families to meet the challenges of current economic conditions, raise their standards of living, and access the benefits of economic growth.(f) Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Task Force shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on its most recent findings and recommendations.(g) Appropriate congressional committees defined
In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means each of the following:
(1) The Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
(2) The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
(4) The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(5) The Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.