
1. Terminating DHS requirement for proof of COVID–19 vaccination for foreign travelers

(a) In general
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, a travel vaccination requirement for foreign travelers referred to in subsection (c) shall have no force or effect, unless otherwise specified in a provision of law enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act. (b) Prohibition on funding
Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, no Federal funds may be used to administer, implement, or enforce a travel vaccination requirement for foreign travelers referred to in subsection (c), unless otherwise specified in a provision of law enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c) Travel vaccination requirement for foreign travelers
In this Act, a travel vaccination requirement for foreign travelers referred to in this subsection is a requirement specified in— 
(1) the decision issued by the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection entitled Notification of Temporary Travel Restrictions Applicable to Land Ports of Entry and Ferries Service Between the United States and Canada and published in the Federal Register on April 22, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 24048 et seq.) for proof of COVID–19 vaccination for travelers who are covered individuals (as defined in such order);

(2) the decision of the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled Notification of Temporary Travel Restrictions Applicable to Land Ports of Entry and Ferries Service Between the United States and Mexico published in the Federal Register on April 22, 2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 24041) to continue to temporarily restrict travel by certain noncitizens into the United States at land ports of entry, including ferry terminals, along the United States-Mexico border; or 
(3) any successor or subsequent decision of the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the processing for entry into the United States foreign persons to show proof of COVID–19 vaccination as a condition on entering the United States.
