1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Military Suicide Prevention in the 21st Century Act.2. Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1) Although electronic devices, such as mobile phones, computers, and tables, increasingly are being leveraged as vehicles for health in the civilian world, almost nothing is known about how covered devices may be used among members of the Armed Forces to positively impact the health of such members.
(2) The Defense Health Agency created the Virtual Hope Box application to help members of the Armed Forces build resilience.
(3) Users of the Virtual Hope Box application reported significantly greater ability to cope with unpleasant emotions and thoughts.
(4) Members of the Armed Forces who are behavioral health patients experiencing distress, emotional dysregulation, or suicidal ideation are often separated from direct clinical support when they need it.
(5) The Virtual Hope Box application offers a highly portable, accessible, and discreet tool for effectively increasing coping self-efficacy.
(6) A strongly linked chain of care depends on engaged leaders as well as highly competent first responders, crisis hotline workers, emergency department personnel, chaplains, primary care clinicians, and behavioral health clinicians.3. Pilot program on pre-programming of suicide prevention resources into smart devices issued to members of the Armed Forces
(a) In general
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence the conduct of a pilot program under which the Secretary—
(1) pre-downloads the Virtual Hope Box application of the Defense Health Agency, or such successor application, on the covered devices of members of the Armed Forces; 
(2) pre-programs the National Suicide Hotline number and Veterans Crisis Line number into the contacts for such covered devices; and
(3) provides training, as part of the training on suicide awareness and prevention conducted throughout the Department of Defense, on the preventative resources described in paragraphs (1) and (2).(b) Duration
The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program under this section for a two-year period. (c) Scope
The Secretary of Defense shall determine the appropriate scope of individuals participating in the pilot program under this section to best represent each Armed Force and to ensure a relevant sample size. (d) Identification of other resources
In carrying out the pilot program under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the Director of the Defense Health Agency and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to identify other useful technology-related resources for use in the pilot program.(e) Report
Not later than 30 days after the date on which the pilot program under this section terminates, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the pilot program, including recommendations by the Secretary relating to expanding the scope of future pilot programs to include members of the Armed Forces who do not possess covered devices.(f) Definitions
In this section:
(1) The term covered device means a smart device (including a mobile phone) that is issued to an individual by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of an Armed Force.
(2) The term Veterans Crisis Line means the toll-free hotline for veterans established under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code.