1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Uniform Postal Data Acquisition for Transparency and Early Detection within the United States Postal Service Act or the UPDATED USPS Act.2. Modification of requirements relating to advance electronic information for cargo
(a) Elimination of restriction on use of advance electronic information for commercial enforcement
Section 343(a)(3)(F) of the Customs Border Security Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 1415(a)(3)(F)) is amended by striking , and shall and all that follows through thereunder.(b) Elimination of waivers of requirement To transmit advance electronic information for countries

(1) In general
Section 343(a)(3)(K)(vi) of the Customs Border Security Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 1415(a)(3)(K)(vi)) is amended—(A) by striking subclauses (II), (III), and (IV); and(B) by striking (I) Notwithstanding and inserting Notwithstanding.
(2) Effective date
The amendments made by paragraph (1) take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.(c) Requirement To refuse shipments for which advance electronic information is not transmitted
Section 343(a)(3)(K)(vii) of the Customs Border Security Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 1415(a)(3)(K)(vii)) is amended to read as follows:(vii) The Commissioner shall refuse entry for any international mail shipments described in clause (i) received after December 31, 2023, for which the information described in paragraphs (1) and (2) is not transmitted as required under this subparagraph..(d) Inclusion of letter class mail; publication of number of shipments for which advance electronic information not transmitted
Section 343(a)(3)(K) of the Customs Border Security Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 1415(a)(3)(K)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating clauses (viii) and (ix) as clauses (x) and (xi), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after clause (vii) the following:(viii) Not later than December 31, 2023, the Postal Service shall arrange for the transmission to the Commissioner of the information described in paragraphs (1) and (2) for all international mail shipments.(ix) Not less frequently than every 30 days, the Postal Service shall publish on a publicly accessible internet website the number of international mail shipments for which the information described in paragraphs (1) and (2) was not transmitted to the Commissioner under this subparagraph during the preceding 30-day period..(e) Monthly report
Section 343(a) of the Customs Border Security Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 1415(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(6) Monthly report
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the UPDATED USPS Act, and every 30 days thereafter, the Secretary shall publish, for the preceding 30-day period, the following information:(A) The total volume of international mail shipments and other cargo received by the Postal Service and private sector importers for which advance electronic information is submitted under this section.(B) The number of packages included in such shipments and cargo that U.S. Customs and Border Protection requested to screen and the number of packages provided for such screening by the Postal Service and private sector importers.(C) An assessment of the results of inspections by U.S. Customs and Border Protection of international mail facilities and private sector importers, including the number of goods inspected and seized.(D) The volume of Inbound Express Mail Service items entered under section 13031(b)(9)(D) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(b)(9)(D)). (E) The total amount of fees paid to U.S. Customs and Border Protection by the Postal Service and private sector importers under that section.(F) The number of international mail shipments, disaggregated by letters and packages, received from each foreign country..(f) Technical amendments
Section 343 of the Customs Border Security Act of 2002 (19 U.S.C. 1415) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(3)(G), by striking the second period at the end;
(2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:(c) Secretary defined
In this section, the term Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security acting jointly.; and
(3) by striking the Customs Service each place it appears and inserting U.S. Customs and Border Protection.