
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Expanding Opportunities for Diverse Entrepreneurs Act. 2. Disadvantaged Business Enterprise outreach efforts
 (a) Establishment
Each recipient of financial assistance provided by the Department of Transportation that is required to implement a DBE program that conforms to the requirements of part 23 and 26 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, shall direct the disadvantaged business enterprise liaison officer, or the individual responsible for implementing the requirements of the DBE program, to carry out the duties described in subsection (b).
(b) Duties
The duties of a disadvantaged business enterprise liaison officer, or the individual responsible for implementing the requirements of the DBE program, shall include tracking and providing an analysis of all efforts to expand knowledge of services and opportunities available to non-certified disadvantaged business enterprises and disadvantaged business enterprises certified in the DBE program to facilitate the capacity of the enterprise to compete for, and perform on, federally assisted transportation contracts and procurement activities, including— 
(1) minimum outreach, training, workshops, and education efforts, including business development programs, courses, conferences, networking events, marketing to publicize a DBE program; and online development support, informative workshops; and

(2) such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate. 3. Collection of information; report
 (a) Collection of information
The Secretary of Transportation shall require disadvantaged business enterprise liaison officers, or the individual responsible for implementing the requirements of a DBE program, to—

(1) collect the information required under section 2(b)(2) and submit such information to the appropriate operating administration; and 
(2) submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on the efforts to carry out the duties described in section 2(b).
(b) Report on progress of DBE program


(1) In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to Congress a report on the disadvantaged business enterprises program carried out by the Department of Transportation pursuant to section 11101(e) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (23 U.S.C. 101 note). 
(2) Contents
 (A) In general
The report required under subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the percentage and dollar amount of Federal funds paid to small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals in the prior fiscal year for each State and territory of the United States, disaggregated by race, sex, and any other federally recognized category.
(B) Public availability
The Secretary of Transportation shall publicly disclose on the website of each operating administration, in a searchable, exportable, and easy to find manner in the uniform report of DBE awards—commitments and payments specified in part 26 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, for each State. 4. Definitions
In this Act:

(1) DBE program
The term DBE program means the disadvantaged business enterprise program that is carried out by— (A) with respect to the Federal Highway Administration, any recipient or subrecipient of DOT funds that awards prime contracts exceeding a total of $250,000 in a fiscal year;
(B) with respect to the Federal Transit Administration, any recipient of DOT funds that awards prime contracts exceeding a total of $250,000 in a fiscal year; and (C) with respect to the Federal Aviation Administration, any recipient of DOT funds subject to part 23 and 26 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, that awards prime contracts exceeding a total of $250,000 in a fiscal year.

(2) Small business concern; socially and economically disadvantaged individuals
The terms small business concern and socially and economically disadvantaged individuals have the meanings given such terms in section 11101(e) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (23 U.S.C. 101 note). 