
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Shirley Chisholm Congressional Gold Medal Act. 2. Findings
The Congress finds as follows:

(1) In 1968, Shirley Chisholm became the first African-American woman elected to Congress where she served until 1982. 
(2) Shirley Chisholm inspired and led the march of political achievement by African Americans and women in the three decades since she ran for the Presidency of the United States.

(3) Her election to Congress and her candidacy for the Presidency raised the profile and aspirations of all African Americans and women in the field of politics. 
(4) Shirley Chisholm was recognized for her activism, independence, and groundbreaking achievements in politics during and after the civil rights era.

(5) Shirley Chisholm was born in Brooklyn, New York, on November 30, 1924, attended Brooklyn College, and earned a master's degree from Columbia University. 
(6) Shirley Chisholm worked in education and social services before being elected to the New York State Assembly in 1964.

(7) Shirley Chisholm established the Unity Democratic Club in 1960, which played a significant role in rallying Black and Hispanic voters in New York City. 
(8) In 1969, Shirley Chisholm began her service in the 91st Congress, representing Brooklyn's 12th Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives.

(9) During her service in the House of Representatives, Shirley Chisholm promoted the employment of women in Congress and was vocal in her support of civil rights, women's rights, and the poor, while fervently opposing the Vietnam War. 
(10) In 1972, Shirley Chisholm was the first African American to seek the nomination of a major party for President of the United States.

(11) Shirley Chisholm was a co-founder of the National Organization for Women. 
(12) A historic figure in American political history, Shirley Chisholm died at the age of 80 in Ormond Beach, Florida, on New Year’s Day 2005.
3. Congressional gold medal

(a) Presentation Authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Shirley Chisholm, in recognition of her activism, independence, and groundbreaking achievements in politics, her election as the first African-American woman in the Congress, and her campaign to be the first African American to gain the nomination of a major political party for President of the United States. (b) Design and striking
For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the Secretary) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary. The design shall bear an image of, and inscription of the name of, Shirley Chisholm.
(c) Smithsonian institution


(1) In general
Following the award of the gold medal referred to in subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where it will be displayed as appropriate and made available for research. 
(2) Sense of Congress
It is the sense of Congress that the Smithsonian Institution should make the gold medal received under this Act available for display elsewhere, particularly at other locations and events associated with Shirley Chisholm.
4. Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses. 5. Status of medals
 (a) National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
(b) Numismatic items
For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 6. Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
 (a) Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b) Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund. 