1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Protecting America’s Rock Climbing Act. 2. Guidance on climbing management in designated wilderness areas
(a) Climbing guidance required

(1) In general
Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall issue guidance on climbing management in designated wilderness areas that recognizes the appropriateness of the allowable activities described in paragraph (2) in such areas, if the allowable activities are undertaken in accordance with—(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.);(B) other applicable laws (including regulations); and(C) any terms and conditions that are determined to be necessary by the Secretary concerned.
(2) Allowable activities
The allowable activities referred to in paragraph (1) are—(A) recreational climbing;(B) the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed anchors; and(C) the use of other equipment necessary for recreational climbing.(b) Public notice and comment

(1) Requirement
Except as provided in paragraph (2), prior to taking any significant management action affecting the allowable activities described in subsection (a)(2) on the land described in subsection (c)(1)(B), the Secretary concerned shall provide the public with notice and an opportunity to comment on the proposed action.
(2) Exception with respect to emergency actions
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an emergency action that has a duration of less than 2 years. (c) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Designated wilderness area
The term designated wilderness area means an area—(A) designated as a wilderness area pursuant to the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and (B) located in—(i) National Forest System lands; or(ii) lands under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior.
(2) Emergency action
The term emergency action means a time sensitive action necessary to protect natural resources or public health and safety.
(3) Secretary concerned
The term Secretary concerned means—(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System lands; and(B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to lands under the administrative jurisdiction of such Secretary.