
1. One Federal decision for ports

(a) In general
Chapter 543 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  54302. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal decision
 (a) Efficient environmental reviews
 
(1) In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall apply the project development procedures, to the greatest extent feasible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any port infrastructure project that requires the approval of the Secretary under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

(2) Regulations and procedures
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to port infrastructure projects described in paragraph (1) aspects of such project development procedures, or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the Secretary in a manner consistent with this section, that increase the efficiency of the review of port infrastructure projects. 
(3) Discretion
The Secretary may choose not to incorporate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to port infrastructure projects described in paragraph (1) such project development procedures that could only feasibly apply to highway projects, public transportation capital projects, and multimodal projects.

(4) Applicability
Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23 shall apply to port infrastructure projects described in paragraph (1), except that the limitation on claims of 150 days shall be 2 years. (b) Additional categorical exclusions
The Secretary shall maintain and make publicly available, including on the Internet, a database that identifies project-specific information on the use of a categorical exclusion on any port infrastructure project carried out under this title. .
(b) Clerical amendment
The analysis for chapter 543 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:    54302. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal decision.. 2. One Federal decision for pipelines
 (a) In general
Chapter 601 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

60144. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal decision

(a) Efficient environmental reviews


(1) In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall apply the project development procedures, to the greatest extent feasible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any pipeline project that requires the approval of the Secretary under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). 
(2) Regulations and procedures
In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to pipeline projects described in paragraph (1) aspects of such project development procedures, or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the Secretary in a manner consistent with this section, that increase the efficiency of the review of pipeline projects.

(3) Discretion
The Secretary may choose not to incorporate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to pipeline projects described in paragraph (1) such project development procedures that could only feasibly apply to highway projects, public transportation capital projects, and multimodal projects. 
(4) Applicability
Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23 shall apply to pipeline projects described in paragraph (1).
(b) Additional categorical exclusions
The Secretary shall maintain and make publicly available, including on the Internet, a database that identifies project-specific information on the use of a categorical exclusion on any pipeline project carried out under this title. . (b) Clerical amendment
The analysis for chapter 601 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 


60144. Efficient environmental reviews and one Federal decision..
3. One Federal decision for airports and aviation
Section 47171 of title 49, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following: 

(a) Aviation project review process
The Secretary of Transportation shall apply the project development procedures, to the greatest extent feasible, described in section 139 of title 23 to any airport or aviation project that requires the approval of the Secretary under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).;  
(2) in subsection (b) by striking coordinated and expedited environmental review process requirements set forth in this section and inserting project development procedures described in subsection (a); and

(3) by striking subsections (c) through (m) and inserting the following:   (c) Efficient environmental reviews
 
(1) Regulations and procedures
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall incorporate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to airport or aviation projects described in subsection (b) aspects of such project development procedures, or portions thereof, determined appropriate by the Secretary in a manner consistent with this section, that increase the efficiency of the review of such projects.

(2) Discretion
The Secretary may choose not to incorporate into agency regulations and procedures pertaining to airport or aviation projects described in subsection (b) such project development procedures that could only feasibly apply to highway projects, public transportation capital projects, and multimodal projects. 
(3) Applicability
Subsection (l) of section 139 of title 23 shall apply to airport or aviation projects described in subsection (b).
(d) Additional categorical exclusions
The Secretary shall maintain and make publicly available, including on the Internet, a database that identifies project-specific information on the use of a categorical exclusion on any airport or aviation project carried out under this title. . 4. Efficient environmental reviews
Section 24201(a)(4) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking , except that the limitation on claims of 150 days shall be 2 years. 
