
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Negating Obligations for Transit-Oriented Developments Act or the NO TOD Act. 2. Transportation infrastructure finance and innovation program
 (a) Generally applicable provisions
Section 601(a)(12) of title 23, United States Code, is amended—

(1) by striking subparagraph (E); and 
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) through (H) as subparagraphs (E) through (G), respectively.
(b) Determination of eligibility and project selection
Section 602(a) of title 23, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (5)(B)—
(A) by striking clause (ii); and (B) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as clauses (ii) and (iii), respectively; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:  
(12) Ineligible projects
 (A) In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a transit-oriented development project shall not be eligible to receive assistance under the TIFIA program.
(B) Definition
In this paragraph, the term transit-oriented development project means a project or components of a project designed for commercial or residential use..  (c) Conforming amendment
Section 608(a)(4) of title 23, United States Code, is amended—

(1) by striking subparagraph (A); and 
(2) by striking (B) Airport-related projects and all that follows through The Secretary and inserting The Secretary. 
(d) Applicability
This section and the amendments made by this section shall apply to project applications submitted on or after the date of enactment of this Act.  3. Railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing
 (a) In general
Section 22402 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in subsection (b)(1)— (A) in subparagraph (D) by inserting or at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (E) by striking ; or and inserting a period at the end; and (C) by striking subparagraph (F); and

(2) in subsection (c)(6) by striking and increase transit-oriented development. (b) Applicability
This section and the amendments made by this section shall apply to applications for direct loans or guaranteed loans submitted on or after the date of enactment of this Act. 
4. Elimination of transit-oriented development planning pilot program
Section 20005 of MAP–21 (49 U.S.C. 5303 note) is amended by striking subsection (b). 