
1. Report on Puerto Rico’s electric grid

(a) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and appropriate representatives of the Government of Puerto Rico, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on Puerto Rico’s progress toward rebuilding the electric grid and that details the efforts the Federal Government is undertaking to expedite such rebuilding. The report shall contain the following: 
(1) An analysis of the state of Puerto Rico’s electric grid, including the following:
(A) A list of projects in order of priority, estimated cost, and estimated time necessary for completion. (B) An analysis of the measures taken by the Federal Government and the Government of Puerto Rico to expedite such rebuilding and the effectiveness of such measures.
(C) Information relating to the amount of funds that have been allocated and the amount of funds that have been disbursed. (D) An analysis of how the Federal Government can provide further assistance in expediting such rebuilding.

(2) Information on accountability measures the Federal Government is implementing or planning to implement to oversee the work that the Government of Puerto Rico, the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, and private sector entities are carrying out in the rebuilding of the electric grid. 
(3) An analysis of the role of the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico in the rebuilding of Puerto Rico’s electric grid. 

(4) Recommendations, as appropriate, for private sector entities and governments to reduce the number of outages and blackouts. 
(5) Proposals, as appropriate, for legislative actions and funding needed to improve the process of fund disbursement for critical projects related to electric grids.

(6) A plan for expediting such rebuilding by not later than three months after the report is so submitted. (b) Definition
In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Natural Resources, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. 
