
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the AANAPISI Opportunity Act.  2. Grant programs supporting certain Asian American Native American Pacific Islander-serving agricultural institutions
 (a) Integrated research, education, and extension competitive grants program established
 
(1) Competitive grants authorized
Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this section, the Secretary may award grants to covered institutions on a competitive basis for integrated agricultural research, education, and extension projects in accordance with this subsection. 

(2) Criteria for grants
Grants under this subsection shall be awarded to address priorities in United States agriculture, as determined by the Secretary in consultation with experts in Asian American Native American Pacific Islander agricultural issues, that involve integrated research, extension, and education activities. 
(3) Matching funds requirement
 (A) In general
Subject to subparagraph (C), with respect to a grant under this subsection that provides a particular benefit to a priority area specified in section 2(b)(2) of the Competitive, Special, and Facilities Research Grant Act (7 U.S.C. 3157(b)(2)), the recipient of the grant shall provide non-Federal matching funds (including funds from an agricultural commodity promotion, research, and information program) equal to 50 percent of the amount of the grant.
(B) In-kind support
Non-Federal matching funds described in subparagraph (A) may include in-kind support.  (C) Waiver
The Secretary may waive the matching funds requirement under subparagraph (A) with respect to a grant if the Secretary determines that—
(i) the results of the grant are of a particular benefit to a specific agricultural commodity, but those results are likely to be applicable to agricultural commodities generally; or  (ii)  (I) the grant—
(aa) the recipient is unable to satisfy the matching funds requirement;  (bb) involves a minor commodity; and 
(cc) deals with scientifically important research; and  (II) the recipient is unable to satisfy the matching funds requirement. 

(4) Term of grant
A grant under this section shall have a term of not more than 5 years.  (b) Scholarship grant program established
 
(1) In general
The Secretary shall make grants to each covered institution for purposes of awarding scholarships to individuals who—
(A) have been accepted for admission at such covered institution;  (B) will be enrolled at such covered institution not later than one year after the date of such acceptance; and 
(C) intend to pursue a career in agriculture, including in the agricultural disciplines of business, management, economics, engineering, mechanics, production, technology, agronomy, crop science, animal science, botany, food science, forestry, home economics, nutrition, horticulture, natural resources management, soil conservation, soil science, farm and range management, non-medical biological sciences, pre-veterinary medicine, computer science, and such other disciplines as the Secretary determines appropriate.  
(2) Condition
The Secretary may only award a grant under this subsection to a covered institution if the Secretary determines that such covered institution has established a competitive scholarship awards process for the award of scholarships to individuals described in paragraph (1).
(c) Report
Beginning on the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every two years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report detailing— 
(1) the amount of funds provided to each covered institution under subsections (a) and (b);

(2) the number of grants awarded under subsection (a) each fiscal year and the amount of each such grant; and 
(3) the number of scholarships awarded under each grant under subsection (b) each fiscal year and the amount of each such scholarship.
(d) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Covered institution
The term covered institution means a community college, college, or university—
(A) that has, at the time of an application for a grant under this section, a student body consisting of at least 10 percent Asian American Native American Pacific Islander students; and (B) that offers associate, bachelors, or other accredited degree programs in agriculture-related fields.

(2) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture. 