
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Fire Information and Reaction Enhancement Act of 2023 or the FIRE Act of 2023. 2. Wildfire forecasting and detection
 (a) In general
 
(1) Establishment
The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in collaboration with the United States weather industry and such academic entities as the Administrator considers appropriate, shall establish a program within such Administration to improve wildfire forecasting and detection.

(2) Goals
The goals of the program under paragraph (1) shall be to develop and extend accurate wildfire forecasts and warnings in order to reduce loss of life, injury, property, and damage to the economy, with a focus on improving the following: (A) The prediction of intensification and spread of wildfires.
(B) The forecast and communication of smoke dispersion from wildfires. (C) Information dissemination and risk communication to create more effective watch and warning products.
(D) The early detection of wildfires to contain their growth and mitigate damages. 
(3) Elements
In order to meet the goals specified in paragraph (2), the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is authorized to conduct development, testing, and deployment activities related to the following:
(A) Advanced satellite detection products. (B) Grid-based assessments and outlooks of fuel moisture and danger levels.
(C) Coupled atmosphere and fire modeling systems. (D) Systems to link climate predictions to achievable land management decisions.
(E) Improved spatial and temporal resolution observations in high latitudes. (b) Construction authorization
 
(1) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, in partnership with industry and academic partners, shall establish a program to create one or more weather research testbeds to develop improved detection of and forecast capabilities for wildfire events and their impacts.

(2) Resources
In carrying out the program under paragraph (1), the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research may not utilize resources for such testbeds from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration cooperative institutes in existence as of the date of enactment of this Act. 
(3) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2024 to carry out the program under paragraph (1). 
