
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Douglas Mike Day Psychedelic Therapy to Save Lives Act of 2023. 2. Grant program of the Department of Defense to study treatment of certain conditions using certain psychedelic substances
 (a) Establishment
Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall award grants to eligible entities to conduct research on the treatment of members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty with a covered condition using covered psychedelic substances. Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall designate a lead administrator to carry out the grant program under this section.
(b) Eligible entities
The Secretary may award a grant under this section to any of the following: 
(1) A department or agency of the Federal Government or a State government.

(2) An academic institution. 
(3) A nonprofit entity.
(c) Use of grant funds
A recipient of a grant awarded under this section may use the grant to— 
(1) conduct one or more phase two clinical trials for the treatment of covered conditions that—
(A) include members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty as participants in the clinical trial; and (B) use individual or group therapy assisted by covered psychedelic substances; or

(2) train practitioners to provide treatment to members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for covered conditions using covered psychedelic substances. (d) Participation in clinical trials
The Secretary shall authorize any member of the Armed Forces diagnosed with a covered condition to participate in a clinical trial that is conducted using a grant awarded under this section or funds provided under subsection (e) and is authorized pursuant to section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355), without regard to—

(1) whether the clinical trial involves a substance included in the schedule under section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812); or 
(2) section 912a of title 10, United States Code (article 112a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
(e) Additional authority
In addition to awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall provide funds for a clinical research trial using covered psychedelic substances that is authorized pursuant to section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355) and includes members of the Armed Forces as participants in the trial. (f) Report required
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on grants awarded under this section, including the following:

(1) Identification of clinics designated to host activities under such a grant. 
(2) A description of entities to whom the Secretary has awarded such a grant.

(3) The number of members of the Armed Forces who participated in a clinical trial described in subsection (d). 
(4) Information on the findings of such clinical trials.
(g) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028. (h) Definitions
In this section:

(1) The term covered condition means any of the following: (A) Post-traumatic stress.
(B) Traumatic brain injury. (C) Chronic traumatic encephalopathy

(2) The term covered psychedelic substances means any of the following: (A) 3,4-Methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (commonly known as MDMA).
(B) Psilocybin. (C) Ibogaine.
(D) 5-Methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (commonly known as 5-MeO-DMT). 
(3) The term State has the meaning given such term in section 901 of title 32, United States Code.
