
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Teachers Leading, Educating, Advancing, and Designing Act of 2023 or the Teachers LEAD Act of 2023.  2. Findings
Congress finds the following:

(1) Decades of research have shown that teachers are the single most important school-based factor in student achievement, and an analysis by the Brookings Institution indicates that a high level of teacher turnover is negatively associated with student achievement, and is higher in urban schools and schools with more economically disadvantaged students. 
(2) A report by the National Commission on Teaching and America’s Future estimated that districts spend between $10,000 and $17,000 for each teacher who leaves the district, making teacher turnover and attrition a costly issue for school systems.

(3) The United States education system is experiencing an ongoing teacher recruitment, retention, and shortage crisis. According to a National Education Association survey in January of 2022, 55 percent of all teachers, 62 percent of Black teachers, and 59 percent of Hispanic or Latino educators said they were more likely to retire early or leave the profession. 
(4) In the same survey, 74 percent of teachers report having to fill in for colleagues or take on other duties due to staff shortages, while 90 percent of respondents pointed out that teacher burnout is becoming a very serious issue. As a Nation, we face the possibilities of vacancies and educator burnout being exacerbated by educator shortages.

(5) An analysis by the Economic Policy Institute of teacher turnover data suggests that low salaries, lack of professional development opportunities, and a difficult school climate, including lack of teacher input into school policy, are common factors behind teachers leaving the workforce. 
(6) According to data from the National Center for Education Statistics, racially and ethnically diverse teachers are more likely to work in high-need schools. Unfortunately, these schools often experience high teacher turnover rates, which can have a negative impact on students.

(7) According to a report by Teach Plus and the Education Trust, teachers of color report that they have considered leaving the profession because they lack agency, autonomy in decision making, and opportunities for leadership. 
(8) Studies show that all students benefit from having racially and ethnically diverse teachers. These benefits are magnified for students of color, who experience improved academic performance, higher graduation rates, and increased interest in pursuing higher education.

(9) Teachers of color are also underrepresented in schools, with only 20 percent of the teacher workforce identifying as people of color versus over 50 percent of public school students. 
(10) Studies show that there is a positive link between professional leadership opportunities, job satisfaction, and retention of classroom teachers, and that compensation for teachers’ added leadership responsibilities increases teacher retention.

(11) In a Gates Foundation Survey, only 12 percent of all teachers surveyed reported receiving consistent job-embedded mentorship and professional development from veteran teachers, despite multiple studies showing that consistent mentorship improves student learning. 
(12) The New Teacher Project found that only 26 percent of high-performing teachers agreed that their school leadership identified opportunities or clear paths for teacher leadership roles.

(13) According to a report by Teach Plus and the Education Trust, teachers’ investment in their schools and their likelihood of retention is greater where opportunities exist to innovate and advocate on behalf of students, especially when a teacher acts in partnership with school and district administration to address student and teacher needs. 
(14) Structured leadership programs are an effective way to help combat the nationwide teacher shortage and improve teacher retention by empowering teachers and establishing formal peer mentorships between effective and experienced teachers and those just entering the profession, which also leads to academic and socio-emotional benefits for students.

(15) Federal policies are needed to encourage and fund the establishment of structured leadership programs at public schools, especially in high-need schools and school districts. 3. Teacher leadership grant program
 (a) Definitions
In this section:

(1) ESEA terms
The terms educational service agency, elementary school, local educational agency, paraprofessional, school leader, secondary school, and Secretary have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801). 
(2) Distributed leadership
The term distributed leadership means a range of approaches wherein the school leadership shares aspects of the traditional set of school decisions, organization, management, and operations with teachers in a manner that is coordinated by, agreed to, and led by the teachers and school leadership.

(3) Eligible entity
The term eligible entity means— (A) a local educational agency or educational service agency;
(B) a consortium of local educational agencies or educational service agencies; or (C) a partnership between a local educational agency or educational service agency and—
(i) a nonprofit organization with demonstrated expertise in teacher leadership programs, as determined by the Secretary; (ii) a State educational agency in the same State as the local educational agency or educational service agency with demonstrated capacity in supporting teacher leadership programs, as determined by the Secretary;
(iii) an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) that awards postsecondary teacher certificates or degrees and has a demonstrated capacity in supporting teacher leadership programs or teacher diversity, as determined by the Secretary; (iv) a Minority-Serving Institution, Tribal College or University, or Historically Black College or University; or
(v) an Indian Tribe. 
(4) High-need educational service agency
The term high-need educational service agency means an educational service agency that serves a significant number or percentage of high-need local educational agencies.

(5) High-need local educational agency
The term high-need local educational agency means a high-need local educational agency, as such term is defined in paragraph (10) of section 200 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1021(10)). 
(6) Indian tribe
The term Indian Tribe means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published most recently as of the date of enactment of this Act pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131). 

(7) Minority-serving institution
The term Minority-Serving Institution means any of the following: (A) An Alaska Native-serving institution, as that term is defined in section 317(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059d(b)).
(B) A Native Hawaiian-serving institution, as that term is defined in section 317(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059d(b)). (C) A Hispanic-serving institution, as that term is defined in section 502(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1101a(a)).
(D) A Predominantly Black institution, as that term is defined in section 371(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(c)). (E) An Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution, as that term is defined in section 320(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059g(b)).
(F) A Native American-serving, nontribal institution, as that term is defined in section 319(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059f(b)). 
(8) Tribal college or university
The term Tribal College or University has the meaning given the term as defined in section 316(b)(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)(3)).

(9) Historically black college or university
The term Historically Black College or University has the meaning given the term part B institution in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061).  
(10) Teacher leader
The term teacher leader means a teacher who is selected to participate in the teacher leadership program under this section. 
(b) Program authorized


(1) In general
The Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to carry out teacher leadership programs. 
(2) Reservations
From the total amount appropriated to carry out this section for a fiscal year, the Secretary—
(A) shall reserve not less than 5 percent to carry out subsection (h); (B) may reserve not more than—
(i) 3 percent to provide technical assistance to, and support the capacity building of, the programs assisted under this section; and (ii) 0.5 percent to support program administration and data collection under this section; and
(C) may reserve not more than 3.5 percent to award planning grants to eligible entities in order to assist those eligible entities in developing a program proposal in accordance with subsection (h). 
(3) Grant period
The Secretary shall make grant awards for not more than 3 years and may extend grant awards for not more than 2 additional years if the grantee is making progress in achieving program objectives.

(4) Geographic diversity
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that, to the extent practicable, grants are distributed among eligible entities that will serve geographically diverse areas, including urban and rural areas. (c) Application
 
(1) In general
An eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(A) a description of how the eligible entity will implement the program proposal described in paragraph (2); (B) a description of how grant funds will be spent, including if and how other Federal, State, Tribal, and local funding sources may be used to supplement grant funds in order to meet the requirements of the teacher leadership program; and 
(C) a description of how the eligible entity will continue the teacher leadership activities assisted under the grant after the grant period ends. 
(2) Program proposal
The program proposal required under this subsection shall include the following:
(A) Program plan
A plan to establish and operate a teacher leadership program that includes the following: (i) A description of how the eligible entity will ensure that the program includes the participation of teacher leaders in goal setting, professional learning, or collaboration with content experts, school leadership, colleagues, or leadership of an eligible entity, with respect to—
(I) strategic planning or development at the school level and the level of the eligible entity, including planning and development relating to school climate, community engagement, teacher professional development and mentorship, and student growth; or (II) implementing practices to support children’s social, emotional, or academic needs, such as—
(aa) planning the design of and organizing the physical space, organizational structure, wraparound services, and culture of schools to support positive, healthy, and developmentally appropriate relationships among members of the school and community; (bb) creating multi-tiered and integrated systems of support to address student academic and non-academic needs; 
(cc) creating and fostering safe and inclusive learning environments that enable authentic, culturally and linguistically responsive learning in identity-safe settings; or (dd) supporting participating teacher leaders in earning additional certifications or licensure to develop their expertise such as National Board Certification, or licensure in special or bilingual education.
(ii) A description of how the eligible entity will ensure that the program offers structures for shared decision making, distributed leadership, common planning, and collaboration between participating teacher leaders and school leaders. (iii) A description of how the eligible entity will ensure that teacher leaders receive training and support to improve skills related to acting as instructional leaders, coaches, mentors, or facilitators of professional learning.
(iv) A description of how the eligible entity will use this program to establish and sustain teacher leadership opportunities to increase teacher retention, including for teachers who are individuals from underrepresented populations in the teaching profession. (B) Program requirements
A description of how the eligible entity will meet each of the following program requirements:
(i) Ensuring all full-time teachers with at least 3 years of full-time teaching experience that maintain their roles as classroom instructors and are employed by the local educational agency may apply to participate in such program as teacher leaders. (ii) Providing the selection criteria for program participation to all eligible teachers described in clause (i), which will include selection based on an eligible teacher’s demonstrated ability in carrying out not less than 5 of the criteria in subclauses (I) through (VIII) and a commitment to growth in other criteria where they do not have a demonstrated ability of—
(I) carrying out leadership responsibilities while maintaining a role as a classroom instructor; (II) focusing on improving or advancing the vision, goals, and priorities of the eligible entity that employs such teacher using evidence-based and practice-based data;
(III) collecting and analyzing data of student social, emotional, and academic outcomes or teacher professional outcomes and taking actions to improve student outcomes, teacher outcomes or professional learning informed by such data; (IV) facilitating collaborative, evidence-based and practice-based, and sustained professional learning with peers, including mentorship and instruction leadership, that lead to improvements in teaching efficacy, professional outcomes or student social, emotional, and academic outcomes;
(V) analyzing socioeconomic, cultural, and historical contexts of students, their communities, and the local educational agency, including existing pedagogy, school policies, and school-based outreach to families and the community to create safe, healthy, and inclusive school climates; (VI) implementing and evaluating strategies aimed at addressing areas of demonstrated need in the school at which the teacher is employed, including increasing wraparound services, academic supports, family engagement, and community-based services;
(VII) supporting teachers to effectively serve students with disabilities, English learners, and students who are linguistically, racially, and culturally diverse, economically disadvantaged, or historically underrepresented to increase their social, emotional, and academic needs; and (VIII) using, customizing, or developing lesson materials and instructional resources to meet the unique needs of students and the eligible entity to further students’ academic achievement and social-emotional learning.
(iii) Ensuring that all teachers and paraprofessionals employed by the participating local educational agencies served by the eligible entity are eligible to participate in programming led by a teacher leader, when applicable. (iv) Providing financial assistance or compensation to teacher leaders who participate in such program for the additional responsibilities that are directly related to the teacher leadership program.
(v) Allowing the financial assistance or compensation described in clause (iv) to be substituted for paid time off or satisfaction of a contract requirement— (I) at the request of the teacher leader receiving such compensation; and
(II) with the authorization and agreement of the eligible entity that serves the elementary or secondary school at which such teacher leader is employed. (vi) Requiring teacher leaders to support their own development and professional growth by evaluating themselves and each other using evidence-, research-, or practice-based rubrics.
(vii) Consulting with other teachers who are not teacher leaders when developing and implementing the program as described in this subparagraph. (viii) Expending funds granted under this Act to permit—
(I) not more than 5 percent of such grant funds for administrative expenses; and (II) not less than 95 percent of such grant funds to—
(aa) implement the program proposal described in this paragraph; and (bb) carry out 1 or more of the following activities:
(AA) Facilitating collaboration between program participants. (BB) Developing or improving instructional materials.
(CC) Supporting the reallocation of work hours for teacher leaders between classroom responsibilities and responsibilities as a teacher leader. 
(3) Data reporting requirement
Each eligible entity applying for a grant under this section shall include in such application an assurance that the eligible entity will comply with reporting and evaluation requirements described in subsection (f).
(d) Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that are or that include— 
(1) a high-need educational service agency;

(2) a high-need local educational agency; 
(3) a local educational agency that receives basic support payments under section 7003(b)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(1));

(4) an Indian Tribe, Tribal educational department or agency, or Tribal educational organization; 
(5) a Native Hawaiian community-based organization or Native Hawaiian educational organization (as those terms are defined in section 6207 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517)) or an Alaska Native organization (as defined in section 6306 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 7546));

(6) a local educational agency that demonstrates in their program proposal under subsection (b)(2) a plan to use this program to establish and sustain teacher leadership opportunities to increase teacher recruitment, including teachers who are individuals from underrepresented populations in the teaching profession; 
(7) an eligible entity described in subsection (a)(3)(C) that has a successful track record in supporting teacher leadership models, retaining teachers, or advancing teacher diversity; or 

(8) a Historically Black College or University, a Tribal College or University, or a Minority-Serving Institution. (e) Uses of funds
 
(1) In general
An eligible entity awarded a grant under this section shall use—
(A) not more than 5 percent of such grant funds for administrative expenses; and (B) not less than 95 percent of such grant funds to implement the program proposal described in subsection (c)(2) and, at the eligible entity’s option, carry out activities described in paragraph (2).

(2) Permissive uses of funds
In addition to implementing the program proposal under subsection (c)(2), an eligible entity awarded a grant under this section may use such grant funds to facilitate— (A) collaboration between program participants;
(B) instructional materials development; or (C) the reallocation of work hours for teacher leaders between classroom responsibilities and responsibilities as a teacher leader.
(f) Reports and evaluation


(1) Reports to the secretary
An eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary, in a timeline determined by the Secretary, all information necessary for the evaluation described in paragraph (2). 
(2) Evaluation
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Institute of Education Sciences, shall carry out an independent evaluation measuring the effectiveness of the activities carried out under grants awarded under this section, including information about whether participating eligible entities experience greater teacher retention than non-participants. In carrying out the evaluation, the Director shall collect and analyze the following information, disaggregated by race, ethnicity, and gender:
(A) With respect to each participating eligible entity— (i) the 3-year retention rate of all full-time teachers, disaggregated by—
(I) teachers who are in their first year of teaching; and (II) teachers who were hired by such local educational agency in the same school year as one another;
(ii) the 5-year retention rate of all full-time teachers, disaggregated by— (I) teachers who are in their first year of teaching; and
(II) teachers who were hired by such local educational agency in the same school year as one another; and (iii) the employment status of full-time teachers who were hired by such educational agency, in the same school year in which such eligible entity received a grant under this section.
(B) With respect to each teacher leader participating in a program established using such grant funds, the following: (i) The number of years of teaching experience such teacher leader had at the time of program participation.
(ii) Whether such teacher leader is employed by a local educational agency served by such eligible entity. (iii) If such teacher leader is not employed by a local educational agency served by such eligible entity, the reason for leaving.
(iv) The year in which such teacher leader was first employed as a teacher. 
(3) Publication
The aggregated data submitted under paragraph (1) and the results of the evaluation under paragraph (2) shall be made publicly available on the website of the Department of Education, except that such publicly available data and results shall not reveal personally identifiable information.

(4) Reports to congress
Not later than 3 years after the Secretary makes awards to an eligible entity under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Institute of Education Sciences a summary report of the preliminary results and impact of the teacher leadership program. The Secretary shall submit to such committees, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Institute of Education Sciences an annual report of the results and impact of the teacher leadership program for each year of the grant thereafter. (g) Bureau of Indian Education Teacher Leadership Programs
 
(1) In general
The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of the Interior, shall—
(A) develop and implement a teacher leadership program plan for Bureau schools (as defined in section 1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)); and (B) award grants to Bureau-funded schools described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 1141(3) of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021(3)).

(2) Special rule
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and Indian Tribes, may waive any requirement under this section or prescribe an alternative or substantially similar requirement if the Secretary finds that the waiver or alternative requirement is necessary for the effective delivery and administration of activities under this section. (h) Planning proposal grants
 
(1) In general
The Secretary may award planning grants to eligible entities to enable those eligible entities to develop a program proposal under subsection (c)(2).

(2) Application
Each eligible entity that desires a planning grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. 
(3) Duration
A planning grant under this subsection shall be for a period of not more than 1 year.
(i) Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $400,000,000 for fiscal year 2024 and each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years. 