
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Unleashing American Energy Act. 2. Offshore oil and gas leasing
 (a) Gulf of Mexico Region Annual Lease Sales
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning in fiscal year 2023, the Secretary of the Interior shall annually conduct a minimum of 2 region-wide oil and gas lease sales in the following planning areas of the Gulf of Mexico region, as described in the 2017–2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program (November 2016):

(1) The Central Gulf of Mexico Planning Area. 
(2) The Western Gulf of Mexico Planning Area.
(b) Alaska Region Annual Lease Sales
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning in fiscal year 2023, the Secretary of the Interior shall annually conduct a minimum of 2 region-wide oil and gas lease sales in the Alaska region of the Outer Continental Shelf, as described in the 2017–2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program (November 2016). (c) Requirements
In conducting lease sales under subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall—

(1) issue such leases in accordance with the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1332 et seq.); and 
(2) include in each such lease sale all unleased areas that are not subject to restrictions as of the date of the lease sale.
(d) Offshore oil and gas leasing delays
Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence of the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking subsections (c) and (d) of this section and inserting this section;

(2) by redesignating subsections (f) through (i) as subsections (g) through (j), respectively; and 
(3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:

(f) Unreasonable delays


(1) In general
The President shall not, through Executive order or any other administrative procedure, unreasonably pause, cancel, delay, defer, or otherwise impede or circumvent any Federal energy mineral leasing processes under this Act, or a related rulemaking process required by subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter 7, of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Administrative Procedure Act), without congressional approval. 
(2) Rebuttable presumption
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any attempt by the President to pause, cancel, delay, defer, or otherwise impede or circumvent any Federal energy mineral leasing process, or a related rulemaking process, described in paragraph (1), without congressional approval, is considered unreasonable for purposes of paragraph (1)..
