
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Let Freedom Sing Act. 2. Findings and purpose
 (a) Findings
Congress finds the following:

(1) Singing of the National Anthem is an officially recognized national unity ritual. Inspired by the sight of the American flag still waving at Fort McHenry after 25 hours of continual bombardment by British forces, Francis Scott Key wrote the words of the Star-Spangled Banner in 1814. In 1931, Congress declared that the Star-Spangled Banner is the national anthem of the United States in section 301 of title 36, United States Code. 
(2) Recognizing that the First Amendment states Congress shall make no law … abridging the freedom of speech.

(3) Further recognizes that singing the National Anthem is an ultimate demonstration of freedom of speech, and any restrictions placed upon singing the National Anthem in a means that is non-disruptive would be a violation of the First Amendment. 
(4) Continues that Federal properties such as the U.S. Capitol should be included as traditional public forums and that singing the National Anthem in public spaces which does not interfere with the operation of the Federal Government’s official business shall not be viewed as a form of protest.

(5) Recognizes that specific spaces in the U.S. Capitol such as National Statuary Hall are a part of the shared American heritage, and access to these spaces for national unity rituals shall not be limited, as singing the National Anthem is not a form of disruptive protest. (b) Purpose
It is the purpose of this Act to protect and to preserve national unity and freedom of speech guaranteeing that the right to sing the National Anthem in federally owned public spaces such as the U.S. Capitol shall not be restricted for any purposes, when the actions do not interfere with the operation of the Federal Government.
3. Prohibition

(a) Prohibition


(1) Prohibits musical performances from being listed as an activity requiring permits from U.S. Capitol Police or the Sergeant at Arms for activities in the U.S. Capitol. 
(2) Overrules D.C. Code § 22–1307 with exclusive regard to the U.S. Capitol to ensure that in public spaces within the U.S. Capitol, specifically National Statuary Hall, where it does not interfere with the flow of official business it is lawful to sing the National Anthem without prior authorization being required and that it shall not be considered a form of unpermitted protest. 

(3) Places the sole discretion to limit musical performances in the Capitol on the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate, to be exercised at a shared discretion only to permit official business to continue uninterrupted.  