
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Hong Kong Business Integrity and Transparency Act.  2. Report on requests from Government of Hong Kong to United States companies for consumer information, content takedowns, or law enforcement assistance
 (a) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make available to the public a report on—

(1) the protection of consumer information in the possession of United States companies operating in Hong Kong; and 
(2) requests issued by the Government of Hong Kong to United States companies operating in Hong Kong for content takedowns or law enforcement assistance.
(b) Matters To be included
The report required by subsection (a) shall, with respect to the 180-day period preceding the date of submission of the report, include the following: 
(1) The number of requests, issued by the Government of Hong Kong to United States companies operating in Hong Kong for consumer information in the possession of such companies, content takedowns, or law enforcement assistance, that were fulfilled and by which companies.

(2) An identification of the Hong Kong laws under which such requests were issued. 
(3) An identification of any United States consumer protection laws that may have been violated in the case of the fulfillment of such requests by such companies.
(c) Form of report
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified index. (d) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees
The term appropriate congressional committees means— (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Finance, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives. 
(2) Content takedown
The term content takedown means the removal of, disabling of access to, or restriction of access to any material, including—
(A) material on a website or online service; (B) a software application; and
(C) any feature of a software application. 