
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Choices for Stranded Passengers Act of 2023. 2. Provision of alternative air carrier transportation for delays or cancellations
 (a) In general
Subchapter I of chapter 417 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 

41727. Provision of alternative air carrier transportation for delays or cancellations

(a) Alternative transportation
An air carrier or foreign air carrier shall provide a passenger on scheduled air transportation in an aircraft designed for 31 passenger seats or greater whose flight experiences a controllable significant delay or cancellation with alternate transportation on another air carrier or foreign air carrier at no additional charge in any case in which the passenger would reach the originally ticketed destination earlier than on— 
(1) the ticketed flight; or

(2) another flight provided by the air carrier or foreign air carrier. (b) Exclusions
Subsection (a) shall not apply if the ticketed passenger voluntarily chooses—

(1) alternative ground transportation, provided at no additional charge by the applicable air carrier or foreign air carrier; or 
(2) if such passenger chooses not to travel to the originally ticketed destination, a full cash refund for the ticket, including any ancillary fees, paid promptly, as determined by the Secretary.  
(c) Passenger rights
Air carriers, foreign air carriers, and ticket agents shall ensure that the rights of a passenger pursuant to this section are— 
(1) clear and conspicuous to the passenger at the time of booking; and

(2) in the case of an air carrier or foreign air carrier, in written communication at the time a flight experiences a controllable significant delay or cancellation. (d) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Controllable significant delay or cancellation
The term controllable significant delay or cancellation means a significant delay or cancellation that is caused by an air carrier or foreign air carrier. 
(2) Significant delay
In this section, the term significant delay means, with respect to air transportation, the departure or arrival at the originally ticketed destination associated with such transportation has changed—
(A) in the case of air transportation within the United States, by 3 or more hours; or  (B) in the case of air transportation to or from a location outside the United States, by 6 or more hours..
(b) Clerical amendment
The analysis for subchapter I of chapter 417 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:   41727. Provision of alternative air carrier transportation for delays or cancellations..  