
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Rural and Remote Hiring and Retention Strategy Act of 2023. 2. U.S. Customers and Border Protection strategy
 (a) In general
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Chief Human Capital Officer of the Department of Homeland Security and the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall issue a strategy and implementation plan, including benchmarks, to improve the hiring and retention of individuals by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in rural or remote areas relating to employment in such areas.
(b) Strategy considerations
The strategy required under subsection (a) shall take into consideration the following: 
(1) Feedback, as available, from individuals who are U.S. Customs and Border Protection candidates or new hires, at locations in rural or remote areas, including feedback on the quality of life in such areas for new hires and their families.

(2) Feedback, as available, from U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel, other than new hires, who are stationed at locations in rural or remote areas, including feedback on the quality of life in such areas for such personnel and their families. 
(3) Feedback, as available, from U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel who have decided to separate from U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

(4) An assessment of existing Federal programs, including financial incentives and other compensation-based flexibilities, regarding how to most effectively aid spouses and families of individuals who are U.S. Customs and Border Protection candidates or new hires in a rural or remote area. 
(5) An assessment of Department of Homeland Security internship programs and the usefulness of such programs in improving hiring by the Secretary of Homeland Security in rural or remote areas.
(c) Implementation plan considerations
The implementation plan required under subsection (a) shall— 
(1) include a pilot or other program, as appropriate, to address hiring and retention challenges faced by U.S. Customs and Border Protection in rural or remote areas; and

(2) enhance strategic recruiting efforts of U.S. Customs and Border Protection through relationships with institutions of higher education, veterans transition and employment centers, and job placement programs in regions that could assist in filling positions in rural or remote areas. (d) Reports
 
(1) Report to Congress and GAO
Beginning on the date that is one year after the date of the issuance of the strategy and implementation plan required under subsection (a) and every three years thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Comptroller General of the United States on the extent to which such strategy and implementation plan have affected the hiring and retention by U.S. Customs and Border Protection of employees in rural or remote areas.

(2) Briefing to Congress
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90 days thereafter until the strategy and implementation plan under subsection (a) are issued, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Comptroller General of the United States on the progress of so issuing such strategy and implementation plan.  
(3) GAO assessment
Not later than 120 days after receiving each briefing required under paragraph (2), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the committees specified in such subsection an assessment of the effectiveness of U.S. Customs and Border Protection actions described in each such briefing, including recommendations for improvements as the Comptroller General determines appropriate. 
(e) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Institution of higher education
The term institution of higher education has the meaning given such term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).

(2) New hire
The term new hire means an individual appointed to a position within U.S. Customs and Border Protection and who, during the one year period preceding such date of appointment, occupied a position in U.C. Customs and Border Protection for fewer than 365 days. 
(3) Rural or remote areas
The term rural or remote areas means areas within the United States that are not within an area defined and designated as urbanized areas by the Bureau of the Census in the most recently completed decennial census, and includes areas along the northern and southern borders.
