1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Women in Agriculture Act.2. Women Farmers and Ranchers Liaison
(a) In general
The Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 is amended by inserting after section 222 (7 U.S.C. 6923) the following:223. Women Farmers and Ranchers Liaison
(a) Establishment
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the Women in Agriculture Act, the Secretary shall establish in the Department the position of Women Farmers and Ranchers Liaison (in this section referred to as the Liaison).(b) Duties

(1) In general
The Liaison shall carry out the following duties:(A) With respect to agricultural programs available to women who are farmers and ranchers—(i) provide information to such women about the availability of such programs and the eligibility requirements for such programs; and(ii) assist such women, and women who are potential farmers or ranchers, in applying for such programs.(B) Advocate on behalf of women who are farmers and ranchers in interactions with employees of the Department.(C) Promote the advancement of women in leadership roles within the Department.(D) Submit and make publicly available the report required under paragraph (2)(A).(E) Consult and provide technical assistance to the Equity Commission of the Department.(F) Consult with and provide technical assistance to any Federal agency that requests such assistance with respect to the duties described in subparagraphs (A) through (E).
(2) Report
(A) In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Women in Agriculture Act, and annually thereafter, the Liaison shall submit to Congress and make publicly available a report on the grants, loans, loan guarantees, and cost share programs made by the Secretary to woman-owned agriculture operations.(B) Contents
Each report required under subparagraph (A) shall include, with respect to the fiscal year preceding such report—(i) the total number of grants, loans, loan guarantees, and cost share programs made by each of the Farm Service Agency and the Natural Resources Conservation Service to agriculture operations;(ii) the percentage of such grants, loans, loan guarantees, and cost share programs made to woman-owned agriculture operations;(iii) the percentage of total funding directed to woman-owned agriculture operations, disaggregated by program;(iv) the percentage of applications made by women-owned agricultural operations; and(v) the percentage of women at different GS levels at the Department, disaggregated by office.
(3) Contract or cooperative agreement
The Liaison may enter into a contract or cooperative agreement with a research center of the Agricultural Research Service, an institution of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)), or a nonprofit organization to carry out 1 or more of the following activities with respect to women who are farmers and ranchers:(A) Conducting research on the profitability of small farms run by such women.(B) Developing educational materials for such women.(C) Conducting workshops, courses, and certified vocational training for such women. (D) Conducting mentoring activities for such women.(E) Providing internship opportunities for such women.(c) Staff support
The Secretary may appoint staff of the Department of Agriculture to support the Liaison. .(b) Termination of authority
Section 296(b) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(11) The authority of the Secretary to carry out the amendment made to this title by the Women in Agriculture Act..3. High-priority research and extension areas
Section 1672(d) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5925(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(21) Ergonomically designed agriculture equipment and machinery
Research and extension grants may be made under this section for the purposes of developing and making widely available agriculture equipment and machinery that is ergonomically designed for use by women..4. Child care priority
Section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: (27) Child care priority
In selecting recipients of loans and grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give priority to any qualified applicant that proposes to use the loan or grant to address the availability, quality, or cost of childcare in an agricultural or rural community. .