
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the International Medical Graduates Assistance Act of 2023.  I Incentivizing States to allow transitional practice by international medical graduates
 101. Grants
 (a) In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services may award grants to States to develop and implement programs to allow eligible international medical graduates, for a period of up to 4 years while completing steps 1 and 2 of the United States Medical Licensing Examination, to practice medicine in the respective State under the supervision of a fully licensed physician.
(b) Definition
In this section: 
(1) The term eligible international medical graduate means an individual who—
(A) graduated from a school of medicine outside of the United States or Canada; and (B) is—
(i) lawfully admitted for permanent residence; (ii) admitted as a refugee under section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157);
(iii) granted asylum under section 208 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1158); or (iv) a person otherwise authorized to be employed in the United States.

(2) The term State includes the District of Columbia and any territory of the United States. 102. Exemption of certain eligible international medical graduates from application of FTE cap
 (a) In general
Section 1886(h)(4)(H) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(h)(4)(H)) is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:

(vii) Exemption of certain foreign medical graduates from counting towards cap

(I) In general
For purposes of applying the limit described in subparagraph (F), a specified resident (as defined in subclause (II)) shall not be taken into account in determining the total number of full-time equivalent residents before application of weighting factors (as determined under this paragraph) with respect to a hospital’s approved medical residency training program. (II) Specified resident defined
For purposes of subclause (I), the term specified resident means an eligible international medical graduate (as defined in section 101(b) of the Pathways to Health Care Act of 2022) who is a resident in a hospital’s approved medical residency training program, but only if such hospital—
(aa) has in effect an agreement with a Federally qualified health center under which residents training in such program spend time training at such center; (bb) is located in a State that allows such eligible international medical graduates to practice medicine as described in section 101(a) of such Act; and
(cc) predominantly serves medically underserved populations (as defined in section 330(b)(3)(A) of the Public Health Service Act), as determined by the Secretary.. (b) Study on removal of resident cap
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report on the possibility of removing the resident cap under section 1886(h)(4)(F) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(h)(4)(F)). 
II Assisting international medical graduates during pursuit of licensure

201. Grants

(a) In general
The Secretary of Health and Human Services may award grants to States to provide assistance to eligible international medical graduates while such graduates are completing steps 1 and 2 of the United States Medical Licensing Examination. (b) Covered assistance
Assistance provided to an eligible international medical graduate pursuant to this section may include paying the costs of the United States Medical Licensing Examination, career counseling, case management, classes in English as a second language, assistance in diploma verification, and test preparation courses.
(c) Definition
In this section, the terms eligible international medical graduate and State have the meanings given to those terms in section 101. 