1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Supporting Women with Career Opportunities in Policing Services Act of 2023 or the Supporting Women COPS Act of 2023. 2. Task Force on Women in Law Enforcement
(a) Establishment
There is established a Task Force on Women in Law Enforcement (referred to in this section as the Task Force) to study State hiring standards for law enforcement officers, develop national hiring standards for law enforcement officers, and develop recommendations for female officer retention and promotion.(b) Composition
The Task Force shall be composed of 15 members, appointed by the Attorney General as follows:
(1) One representative from the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. 
(2) Two mayors.
(3) Three female police executives, one of whom serves as the head of a municipal law enforcement agency, one of whom serves as the head of a State law enforcement agency, and one of whom serves as the head of a sheriff’s department. 
(4) Two female law enforcement officers with the rank of lieutenant or below. 
(5) Two representatives from community-based organizations.
(6) Two academics or researchers who are experts in gender diversity and policing.
(7) One expert in medicine or anatomy who is knowledgeable about the physical differences between male and female law enforcement officers.
(8) One representative from a law enforcement accreditation or standards and training organization. 
(9) One representative from a national law enforcement organization representing women. (c) Duties of the task force
The duties of the Task Force are as follows:
(1) To develop recommendations for national hiring standards for law enforcement officers, including standards for physical fitness, critical thinking, and communication skills, that do not disadvantage applicants based on sex. 
(2) To develop recommendations for female officer retention, addressing barriers including physical fitness after childbirth and family responsibilities, such as childcare.
(3) To develop recommendations for female advancement to leadership roles in law enforcement. (d) Report
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Task Force shall submit to Congress a report that details its findings and recommendations.3. Incentivizing States to adopt standards
(a) In general
Beginning in the fiscal year that begins after the development of the recommendations under section 2(c), a State that adopts such recommendations shall receive, in addition to the amount that the State otherwise receives under subpart 1 of part E of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act (34 U.S.C. 10151 et seq.) (commonly known as the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program), an amount that is equal to 5 percent of what such State receives under such subpart, which may be used for the purposes authorized under such subpart.(b) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (a) for each fiscal year beginning in the fiscal year that begins after the development of the recommendations under section 2(c).(c) Technical assistance

(1) In general
The Attorney General is authorized to provide technical assistance to assist States in adopting the recommendations under section 2(c). 
(2) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection. 