
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the No CCP Financial Apps on Government Devices Act. 2. Prohibition on the use of certain financial service applications on Government phones
 (a) Prohibition
 
(1) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense, and consistent with the information security requirements under subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, shall develop standards and guidelines for executive agencies requiring the removal of any covered application from information technology.

(2) Exceptions
The standards and guidelines developed under paragraph (1) shall include the following: (A) Exceptions for law enforcement activities, national security interests and activities, and security researchers.
(B) For any authorized use of a covered application under an exception, requirements for agencies to develop and document risk mitigation actions for such use. (C) An exception that allows financial regulators to test the covered application for compliance or other purposes in accordance with any requirement from the national security agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, and the Central Intelligence Agency, that ensures the covered application is not able to access information from the financial regulator.
(b) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Covered application
 (A) In general
The term covered application means any financial service application domiciled in a jurisdiction controlled by the Chinese Communist Party or controlled by an entity domiciled in a jurisdiction controlled by the Chinese Communist Party.
(B) Controlled defined
In this paragraph, controlled means any entity with at least a 10 percent voting interest. 
(2) Executive agency
The term executive agency has the meaning given that term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.

(3) Information technology
The term information technology has the meaning given that term in section 11101 of title 40, United States Code.  