
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the VA medical Center Absence and Notification Timeline Act or the VACANT Act. 2. Limitation on detail of directors of medical centers of Department of Veterans Affairs to different positions
 (a) Notification
 
(1) In general
Not later than 90 days after detailing a director of a medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs to a different position within the Department, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives of such detail.

(2) Matters To be included
The notification required by paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to a director of a medical center who is detailed to a different position within the Department, the following information: (A) The location at which the director is detailed.
(B) The position title of the detail. (C) The estimated time the director is expected to be absent from their duties at the medical center.
(D) Such other information as the Secretary may determine appropriate. (b) Appointment of acting director
Not later than 120 days after detailing a director of a medical center of the Department to a different position within the Department, the Secretary shall appoint an individual as acting director of such medical center with all of the authority and responsibilities of the detailed director.
(c) Update on detail
Not later than 120 days after detailing a director of a medical center of the Department to a different position within the Department, and not less frequently than every 30 days thereafter while the detail is in effect or while the director position at the medical center is vacant, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives an update regarding the status of the detail. (d) Return to position or reassignment
 
(1) In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than 180 days after detailing a director of a medical center of the Department to a different position within the Department, for a reason other than an ongoing investigation or administrative action with respect to the director, the Secretary shall—
(A) return the individual to the position as director of the medical center; or (B) reassign the individual from the position as director of the medical center and begin the process of hiring a new director for such position.

(2) Waiver

(A) In general
The Secretary may waive the requirement under paragraph (1) with respect to an individual for successive 90-day increments for a total period of not more than 540 days from the original date the individual was detailed away from their position as director of a medical center. (B) Notification
Not later than 30 days after exercising a waiver under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall notify Congress of the waiver and provide to Congress information as to why the waiver is necessary.
