1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Safer Streets Act of 2023.2. Grant program
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: NN Grants for jurisdictions with high rates of violent crime
3201. In general
The Attorney General shall, each fiscal year, make grants to eligible units of local government and neighborhood or community-based organizations. 3202. Eligibility and incentives
To be eligible for a grant under this part, a unit of local government or a neighborhood or community-based organization operating in a covered jurisdiction shall submit to the Attorney General information establishing that the rate of occurrence of violent crime within that jurisdiction is 2 times or more the national violent crime rate and that the population of that jurisdiction is 100,000 or more. Of any amounts made available for grants under this part for a fiscal year—
(1) 50 percent of such amounts shall be for grants, of an equal amount to each covered jurisdiction, to eligible grantees for which such rate of occurrence is 4 times the national violent crime rate or higher;
(2) 20 percent of such amounts shall be for grants, of an equal amount to each covered jurisdiction, to eligible grantees for which such rate of occurrence is 3 times the national violent crime rate or higher;
(3) 10 percent of such amounts shall be for grants, of an equal amount to each covered jurisdiction, to all other eligible grantees; and
(4) remaining amounts shall be for emergency grants to such eligible grantees as the Attorney General determines appropriate.The Attorney General shall be responsible for awarding funds between units of local government and neighborhood or community-based organizations pursuant to each paragraph of this section. 3203. Administrative costs
Not more than 10 percent of a grant made under this part may be used for costs incurred to administer such grant.3204. Use of funds
Amounts made available as a grant under this part may be used by a grantee for law enforcement purposes or community violence prevention purposes including—
(1) hiring additional law enforcement officers;
(2) investing in surveillance equipment; and
(3) prevention programs.3205. Emergency assistance
Any unit of local government or neighborhood or community-based organization in a covered jurisdiction that experiences, for a fiscal year, an increase of 10 percent in the rate of occurrence in violent crime over the preceding fiscal year, shall be eligible for an additional amount equal to 10 percent of the amount otherwise available under this part. 3206. Definition
The term violent crime has the meaning given that term by the Attorney General for purposes of the Uniform Crime Reporting Program, for the fiscal year during which the grants are made. .