1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Weather Innovation for the Next Generation Act of 2023 or the WING Act of 2023.2. Radar obstruction Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Program
(a) Radar obstruction research
Title IV of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8514 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:415. Radar obstruction Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Program
(a) Establishment
The Director of the National Weather Service, in coordination with the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, shall establish a Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Program (in this section referred to as the Program) to ensure the continued performance of weather radar detection and prediction capabilities with physical obstructions in the line of sight of such radar.(b) Requirements
In carrying out the Program, the Director, in consultation with the Interagency Council for Advancing Meteorological Services, shall—
(1) partner with industry, academia, Federal, State, and local government entities, and any other entity the Director considers appropriate;
(2) identify and test existing or near-commercial technologies and solutions that mitigate the potential impact of obstructions on weather radar;
(3) research additional solutions that could mitigate the effects of an obstruction on weather radar, including—(A) signal processing algorithms;(B) short-term forecasting algorithms to replace contaminated data; and(C) the use of dual polarization characteristics in mitigating the effects of wind turbines on weather radar; and
(4) develop commercially viable technical mitigation solutions for obstructions to weather radar capabilities.(c) Priority
In carrying out the requirements described in subsection (b), the Director shall prioritize consideration of the following technology-based mitigation solutions:
(1) Multifunction phased array radar.
(2) The replacement of contaminated data with commercial radar data.
(3) The utilization of data from private-sector-associated meteorological towers.
(4) Providing wind farm boundaries and consolidated wind farm areas to display on local forecasting equipment.
(5) Installing and providing access to rain gauges.
(6) Any other technology-based mitigation solution the Director determines could overcome beam blockage or ghost echoes.(d) Termination
The authority of the Director to carry out the Program shall terminate on the earlier of—
(1) September 30, 2028; or
(2) one year after date on which the final recommendation required by subsection (e)(2) is submitted by the Director.(e) Report; recommendation

(1) In general
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter until the Program terminates pursuant to subsection (d), the Director shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation of the Program, including an evaluation of each technology-based mitigation solution identified for priority consideration pursuant to subsection (c), and a recommendation regarding additional identification and testing of new technologies based on such consideration.
(2) Final recommendation
Not later than five years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Director shall provide to Congress a recommendation on whether additional research, testing, and development through the Program established under subsection (a) is needed, and a determination of whether a cessation of field research, development, testing, and evaluation is appropriate.(f) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Beam blockage
The term beam blockage means a signal that is partially or fully blocked due to an obstruction.
(2) Director
The term Director means the Director of the National Weather Service.
(3) Ghost echo
The term ghost echo means radar signal reflectivity or velocity return errors in radar data due to the close proximity of an obstruction.
(4) Obstruction
The term obstruction includes—(A) a wind turbine that could limit the effectiveness of a weather radar system; and(B) any building that disrupts or limits the effectiveness of a weather radar system..(b) Clerical amendment
The table of sections in section 1(b) of the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 414 the following new item:415. Radar obstruction Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Program..