
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Teacher Health and Wellness Act. 2. Findings
Congress finds the following:

(1) High levels of stress are adversely affecting teachers’ health. 
(2) Stress is contributing to the high turnover rate among teachers, which causes instability for students and communities. This leads to higher costs for school districts to train new teachers and hinders students’ academic success. 

(3) School organization, low job autonomy, and a lack of ability to access teacher leadership opportunities are main sources of teacher stress. If teachers are not provided with opportunities and tools to manage their stress levels, student well-being can also suffer.   3. Study on reducing teacher stress and increasing teacher retention and well-being
 (a) In general
The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall carry out a five-year study on reducing teacher stress and increasing teacher retention and well-being by implementing and analyzing the results of any of the following programs:

(1) Workplace wellness programs that are designed to improve teacher health, attendance, and engagement. 
(2) Social emotional learning programs that help teachers improve student engagement in the classroom.

(3) Teacher stress management programs that improve teacher performance. 
(4) Mentoring and induction programs during the school year and teacher pre-service programs that improve teacher well-being.

(5) Organizational interventions, such as principal training programs, that reduce stress through supervisor/peer support and increased opportunities for teachers to participate in professional learning communities, teacher leadership positions, and decision making regarding school interventions and management. 
(6) Teacher residency programs that provide mental health and psychological support.

(7) Complementary health approaches, such as mindfulness meditation, that improve teacher performance. 
(8) School reorganization that creates the conditions to facilitate the transmission and sharing of knowledge among teachers.

(9) Other innovative evidence-based approaches that reduce stress and increase well-being in the teaching profession, which may include increased compensation. (b) Report
 
(1) In general
Not later than one year after the end of the study carried out under subsection (a), the Director shall submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report including—
(A) the results of the study carried out under subsection (a); and (B) recommendations for—
(i) decreasing teacher stress and increasing teacher retention and well-being; and (ii) lowering stress-related health care costs for teachers.

(2) Availability
The Director shall make publicly available the report submitted under paragraph (1). (c) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Complementary health approach
The term complementary health approach includes integrative health care, adjunctive health care, and functional medicine. 
(2) Director
The term Director means the Director of the National Institutes of Health.

(3) Teacher
The term teacher means a teacher teaching in any of kindergarten through grade 12.  (d) No additional funds authorized
No additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of this Act. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized.
