1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Prohibiting Russian Uranium Imports Act. 2. Amendments to the USEC Privatization Act
(a) Prohibition on imports
Section 3112A of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h–10a) is amended by adding at the end the following:(d) Prohibition on imports of low-Enriched uranium

(1) Prohibition
Beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, and subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), no unirradiated low-enriched uranium that is produced in the Russian Federation may be imported into the United States. 
(2) Waiver
(A) In general
Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, may waive application of paragraph (1) to authorize the importation of unirradiated low-enriched uranium that is produced in the Russian Federation if the Secretary of Energy determines that—(i) no alternative viable source of low-enriched uranium is available to sustain the continued operation of a nuclear reactor or a United States nuclear energy company; or(ii) importation of low-enriched uranium that is produced in the Russian Federation is in the national interest.(B) Limitation on amounts of imports of low-enriched uranium
(i) In general
The importation into the United States of low-enriched uranium, including low-enriched uranium obtained under contracts for separative work units, that is produced in the Russian Federation, whether or not such low-enriched uranium is derived from highly enriched uranium of weapons origin, may not exceed—(I) in calendar year 2023, 578,877 kilograms; (II) in calendar year 2024, 476,536 kilograms;(III) in calendar year 2025, 470,376 kilograms;(IV) in calendar year 2026, 464,183 kilograms; and(V) in calendar year 2027, 459,083 kilograms.(ii) Termination
Any waiver issued under this subsection shall terminate not later than January 1, 2028. (C) Administration
The Secretary of Commerce shall—(i) administer the import limitations described in subparagraph (B) in accordance with the provisions of the Suspension Agreement, including the provisions described in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i);(ii) be responsible for enforcing the import limitations described in subparagraph (B); and(iii) enforce the import limitations described in subparagraph (B) in a manner that imposes a minimal burden on the commercial nuclear industry.(D) Notification to Congress
Upon issuing a waiver under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a notification that a waiver has been issued, which shall include identification of the recipient of the waiver.
(3) Applicability
This subsection does not apply to imports—(A) by or under contract to the Department of Energy for national security or nonproliferation purposes, as determined by the Secretary of Energy in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce; or(B) of non-uranium isotopes.
(4) Termination
The provisions of this subsection shall terminate on December 31, 2040. . (b) Conforming amendments

(1) In general
Section 3112A(c) of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h–10a(c)) is amended—(A) in paragraph (2)(A)—(i) in clause (viii), by inserting and after the semicolon at the end;(ii) in clause (ix), by striking the semicolon and inserting a period; and(iii) by striking clauses (x) through (xxvii); (B) by striking paragraph (5);(C) in paragraph (6), by striking In addition to the adjustment under paragraph (5)(A), the and inserting The; and (D) in paragraph (9), by striking December 31, 2040 and inserting the date described in subsection (d)(1).
(2) Effective date
The amendment to section 3112A(c)(2)(A)(x) of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h–10a(c)(2)(A)(x)) made by paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.3. Amounts available for the American Assured Fuel Supply
Of the amounts made available to carry out the civil nuclear credit program established under section 40323(b) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (42 U.S.C. 18753(b)), not more than $1,500,000,000 may also be made available for purposes of the American Assured Fuel Supply of the Department of Energy.