
1. Reporting on the Warrior Training Advancement Course of the Veterans Benefits Administration

(a) Reports required


(1) Initial report
Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on WARTAC. 
(2) Annual report
One year after the submission under paragraph (1) and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to such Committees a report that contains the elements under paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection (b) with regards to the preceding year.
(b) Elements
Subject to subsection (a)(2), the reports under this section shall include the following elements: 
(1) Best TAP practices
With regards to TAP practices of WARTAC—
(A) how many covered members have applied to participate in WARTAC; (B) how many covered members have participated in WARTAC;
(C) how the Secretary provides training to covered members during TAP; (D) how many covered members have completed WARTAC; and
(E) any other information the Secretary determines appropriate. 
(2) Cost savings
With regards to cost savings of WARTAC—
(A) how much money the Secretary determines WARTAC saves the United States each fiscal year; (B) how much money the Secretary determines WARTAC has saved the United States since its establishment; and
(C) the determination of the Secretary whether other Federal agencies may save money by establishing a program similar to WARTAC. 
(3) Hiring
With regards to hiring covered members who complete WARTAC—
(A) how the Secretary identifies positions in the Department of Veterans Affairs for which such covered members may qualify; (B) the grades of such positions on the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code; and
(C) how many such covered members the Secretary has hired to such positions. (c) Distribution
Not later than 30 days after submitting the report under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall transmit a copy of the report under this section to each head of a Federal agency.
(d) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) The term covered member means a member of the Armed Forces participating in TAP.

(2) The term TAP means the Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code. 
(3) The term WARTAC means the Warrior Training Advancement Course of the Veterans Benefits Administration, in which the Secretary provides training to covered members so such covered members may qualify for certain employment in the Veterans Benefits Administration.
