
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Energy Cybersecurity University Leadership Act of 2023. 2. Energy cybersecurity university leadership program
 (a) Program
 
(1) Establishment
The Secretary of Energy shall establish an Energy Cybersecurity University Leadership Program (referred to in this section as the Program) to carry out the activities described in paragraph (2).

(2) Program activities
The Secretary of Energy shall— (A) provide financial assistance, on a competitive basis, for scholarships, fellowships, and research and development projects at institutions of higher education to support graduate students and postdoctoral researchers pursuing a course of study that integrates cybersecurity competencies within disciplines associated with energy infrastructure needs; 
(B) provide graduate students and postdoctoral researchers supported under the Program with research traineeship experiences at National Laboratories and utilities; and (C) conduct outreach to historically Black colleges and universities, Tribal Colleges or Universities, and minority-serving institutions.
(b) Report
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on the development and implementation of the Program. (c) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Department
The term Department means the Department of Energy. 
(2) Historically Black college and university
The term historically Black college and university has the meaning given the term part B institution in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061).

(3) Institution of higher education
The term institution of higher education has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)). 
(4) Minority-serving institution
The term minority-serving institution means an eligible institution under section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)).

(5) National Laboratory
The term National Laboratory has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801). 
(6) Tribal College or University
The term Tribal College or University has the meaning given such term in section 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)). 
