1. Adoption of constitution for the United States Virgin Islands
(a) In general
The Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands (48 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.) (as amended through January 1, 2023)—
(1) is deemed to satisfy the requirements of Public Law 94–584 (90 Stat. 2899) with respect to a constitution for the local self-government of the people of the United States Virgin Islands; and
(2) as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is adopted as the constitution of the United States Virgin Islands.(b) Amendments to the constitution

(1) Proposed amendments
(A) In general
The Legislature of the Virgin Islands (referred to in this subsection as the Legislature) may propose amendments to the constitution of the United States Virgin Islands (referred to in this subsection as the constitution) by a resolution approved by not less than two-thirds of all of the members of the Legislature.(B) Presentation to voters
All proposed amendments approved by the Legislature under subparagraph (A)—(i) shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the United States Virgin Islands (referred to in this subsection as qualified voters) in a referendum; and(ii) published at least 3 months before the date of such referendum.(C) Referendum concurrent with general election
If the resolution is approved by not less than three-fourths of all of the members of the Legislature, the Legislature may provide that the referendum be held at the same time as the next general election.(D) Amendment requirements
Each proposed amendment approved by the Legislature under subparagraph (A) shall—(i) be voted on separately;(ii) specify the terms under which it shall take effect; and(iii) become a part of the constitution if it is ratified by a majority of the qualified voters voting thereon. (E) Maximum number
Not more than 3 proposed constitutional amendments may be submitted at the same referendum.
(2) Constitutional convention; Revisions
(A) Question to voters
The Legislature, by a resolution approved by two-thirds of all of the members of the Legislature, may submit to the qualified voters at a referendum, held at the same time as a general election, the question of whether a constitutional convention shall be called to revise the constitution.(B) Effect of vote in favor of revision
If a majority of the qualified voters voting on this question vote in favor of the revision, it shall be made by a constitutional convention elected in the manner provided by law.(C) Special referendum on revisions
Each revision of the constitution shall be submitted to the qualified voters at a special referendum for ratification or rejection by a majority of the votes cast at the referendum.
(3) Limitations
No amendment to the constitution shall—(A) alter the republican form of government established by it; or(B) abolish any right in the bill of rights. (c) Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to create a cause of action under Federal law with respect to any claim that the Legislature of the Virgin Islands is in violation of the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands (48 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.). 