1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Early STEAM Achievement Act.2. Grant program
(a) Program authorized
From the amounts appropriated to carry out this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to assist such entities in carrying out early childhood STEAM programs and activities.(b) Requirements for awarding grants
In awarding grants under this Act, the Secretary shall—
(1) give priority to eligible entities that seek to use such grant to carry out the activities described in subsection (d)(3); 
(2) award not less than one-third of the funds appropriated for a fiscal year under subsection (e) to eligible entities in rural communities; and
(3) award not less than one-quarter of the funds appropriated for a fiscal year under subsection (e) to eligible entities that are nonprofit organizations.(c) Application
An eligible entity desiring to receive a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may request.(d) Uses of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant to carry out at least one of the following:
(1) Professional development relating to early childhood STEAM activities for teachers of early childhood education programs.
(2) Materials and equipment necessary to carry out such early childhood STEAM activities.
(3) Establishing partnerships between the eligible entity and an institution of higher education to provide training in early childhood STEAM activities for teachers of early childhood education programs.
(4) Establishing partnerships between the eligible entity and an arts agency, a community arts partner, or a museum to provide training in early childhood STEAM activities for teachers of early childhood education programs.
(5) The provision of professional development programs for teachers of early childhood education program by institutions of higher education.(e) Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may necessary to carry out this Act for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028.(f) Definitions
In this Act:
(1) Nonprofit organization
The term nonprofit organization means an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
(2) Early childhood education program
The term early childhood education program has the meaning given the term in section 103(8) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1003), except that such term includes programs described in paragraph (8)(C) of such section 103 that serve children from birth through age eight.
(3) Eligible entity
The term eligible entity means an early childhood education program.
(4) Institution of higher education
The term institution of higher education has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
(5) STEAM
The term STEAM means science (including computer science), technology, engineering, art, and mathematics.