
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Farm Credit Administration Independent Authority Act. 2. Farmer loan data collection
 (a) In general
The Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 4.19 the following:

4.20. Small farmer loan data collection

(a) Purpose
The purpose of this section is to affirm that the Farm Credit Administration is the sole and independent regulator of the Farm Credit System. (b) Definition
In this section, the term small farmer means a small farmer, rancher, or producer or harvester of aquatic products as defined pursuant to section 4.19.
(c) Collection of demographic data by Farm Credit System lenders
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Farm Credit System institutions, pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Farm Credit Administration, shall— 
(1) request that loan applicants and borrowers that are small farmers disclose information identifying their race, sex, and ethnicity;

(2) collect and maintain the information resulting from the requests; and 
(3) report to the Farm Credit Administration on an annual basis the information collected pursuant to the requests.
(d) Directions to the Farm Credit Administration
The Farm Credit Administration— 
(1) shall collect the information gathered by Farm Credit System institutions under this section and make the information available to the public on an annual basis; and

(2) shall not require, in prescribing regulations to implement this section, that any Farm Credit System institution contradict the wishes of a customer who does not wish to voluntarily report race, sex, or ethnicity by requiring the Farm Credit System institution to report the race, sex, or ethnicity of the customer based on visual observation, surname, or any other method.  (e) Protection of personally identifiable information
In reporting the information collected under this section, the Farm Credit Administration shall not include any information that would reveal the identify of any loan applicant or borrower.
(f) Effective date
This section shall apply only to applications received and loans made 1 year or more after the date of the enactment of this section.. 3. Conforming amendments
Section 704B(h)(1) of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691c–2(h)(1)) is amended by inserting , other than any entity that is supervised by the Farm Credit Administration before the period at the end.
