1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Covenant School Heroes Congressional Gold Medal Act.2. Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1) At 10:13 a.m., on March 27, 2023, Metropolitan Nashville Police confirmed an active shooter situation was taking place at The Covenant School, a private Christian school in Nashville, Tennessee. The shooter took six lives that day, three children and three adults.
(2) After the first 911 call about shots being fired in the building, officers rushed to the campus. They made entry shortly after 10:13 a.m. and began clearing the building.
(3) Officers report that shots were heard coming from the second level. On the second floor, in a common area, a team of officers encountered the shooter where she had been firing through a window at arriving police cars. 
(4) Two members of an officer team, Officer Rex Englebert and Officer Michael Collazo, fired on the shooter and fatally wounded her.
(5) The victims were identified as Evelyn Dieckhaus, William Kinney, and Hallie Scruggs, all aged nine, and Mike Hill, 61, Cynthia Peak, 61, and Katherine Koonce, 60. 
(6) Officer Michael Collazo and Officer Rex Englebert of the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department exemplified incredible bravery, valor, and courage against the suspect.
(7) These officers have dedicated their lives to protecting their community, and their heroism deserves great honor.3. Congressional gold medals
(a) Presentation authorization
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of two gold medals of appropriate design to Metropolitan Police Officer Michael Collazo and Officer Rex Englebert, in recognition of their exceptional bravery and valor in confronting an active shooter at the Covenant School in Nashville, Tennessee.(b) Design and striking
For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the Secretary) shall strike the gold medals with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.4. Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medals struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.5. Status of medals
(a) National medals
Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.(b) Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.6. Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a) Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.(b) Proceeds of sale
The amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 3 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.