
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Immigrants in Nursing and Allied Health Act of 2023. 2. Grants to reduce barriers to immigrants becoming nurses or allied health professionals
Title VII of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 755 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 294e) the following:

755A. Grants to reduce barriers to immigrants becoming nurses or allied health professionals

(a) In general
The Secretary may award grants to State, local, and Tribal governments and private organizations to reduce barriers to becoming nurses or allied health professionals in the United States for individuals who are— 
(1) lawfully admitted for permanent residence;

(2) admitted as a refugee under section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act; 
(3) granted asylum under section 208 of such Act; or

(4) an immigrant otherwise authorized to be employed in the United States. (b) Use of funds
A State, local, or Tribal government receiving a grant under this section shall use the grant to reduce barriers described in subsection (a), which may include—

(1) paying the costs of— (A) education or training to become a nurse or allied health professional; and
(B) licensing or certification, including the costs of preparing for and taking any examination applicable to the nursing or allied health profession selected by the individual; 
(2) providing a living stipend to individuals studying for such examination;

(3) providing classes in English as a second language; and 
(4) assisting in obtaining overseas academic or training records..
3. Eligibility of certain immigrants to serve in National Health Service Corps
Section 331 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254d) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (k); and

(2) by inserting after subsection (i) the following:  (j) Service by immigrants
Notwithstanding any provision of law that would otherwise require a member of the National Health Service Corps to be a United States citizen or national, an individual described in section 755A(a) may be eligible—

(1) to serve in the National Health Service Corps; and 
(2) to participate in the National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program under section 338A or the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program under section 338B..
