1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Beagle Brigade Act of 2023.2. National Detector Dog Training Center
(a) In general
There is established a National Detector Dog Training Center (referred to in this Act as the Center).(b) Duties
The Center shall have the following duties:
(1) Training dogs for the purpose of safeguarding domestic agricultural and natural resources from foreign and invasive pests and diseases.
(2) Training human handlers to successfully select and train dogs for the purpose described in paragraph (1).
(3) Collaborating with relevant Federal agencies, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection, to safeguard domestic agricultural and natural resources.
(4) Collaborating with external stakeholders, including State departments of agriculture, local and county agricultural officials, private sector entities, and other relevant non-Federal partners.
(5) Ensuring the health and welfare of all dogs under the care of the Center, including by ensuring access to necessary veterinary care, adequate shelter, and proper nutrition.
(6) Providing opportunities for private adoption of retirement-age trained dogs and dogs that do not complete training.
(7) Any other duties necessary to safeguard domestic agricultural and natural resources from foreign and invasive pests and diseases, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. (c) Authorization of appropriations
In addition to any other amounts made available for the operation of the Center, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2024, and each fiscal year thereafter, for the operation of the Center.3. Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, shall submit to Congress a report that contains—
(1) a description of current and emerging threats to domestic agricultural and natural resources from foreign pests and diseases within the purview of the operations of the Center;
(2) an examination of the role that the Center plays in the protection against foreign pests and diseases; 
(3) a description of improvements needed in Federal programs to minimize threats from foreign pests and diseases within the purview of the operations of the Center, including strengthened coordination among the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and other relevant Federal agencies;
(4) recommendations to strengthen the capabilities of the Center in protecting against foreign pests and diseases; and
(5) recommendations to improve—(A) the dog procurement procedures of the Center; and (B) private adoption opportunities for retirement-age trained dogs and dogs that do not complete training.