
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Act of 2023. 2. John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program
The Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

115. John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program

(a) Establishment
There is established the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program (referred to in this section as the Fellowship Program) within the J. William Fulbright Educational Exchange Program. (b) Purposes
The purposes of the Fellowship Program are—

(1) to honor the legacy of Representative John Lewis by promoting a greater understanding of the history and tenets of nonviolent civil rights movements; and 
(2) to advance foreign policy priorities of the United States by promoting studies, research, and international exchange in the subject of nonviolent movements that established and protected civil rights around the world.
(c) Administration
The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (referred to in this section as the Bureau) shall administer the Fellowship Program in accordance with policy guidelines established by the Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, in consultation with the binational Fulbright Commissions and United States Embassies. (d) Selection of fellows
 
(1) In general
The Board shall annually select qualified individuals to participate in the Fellowship Program. The Bureau may determine the number of fellows selected each year, which, whenever feasible, shall be not fewer than 25. 

(2) Outreach
To the extent practicable, the Bureau shall conduct outreach at institutions the Bureau determines are likely to produce a range of qualified applicants. (e) Fellowship orientation
The Bureau shall organize and administer a fellowship orientation that shall—

(1) be held in Washington, DC, or at another location selected by the Bureau;  
(2) include programming to honor the legacy of Representative John Lewis; and

(3) be held on an annual basis. (f) Structure
 
(1) Work plan
To carry out the purposes described in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) each fellow selected pursuant to subsection (d) shall arrange an internship or research placement—  (i) with a nongovernmental organization, academic institution, or other organization approved by the Bureau; and
(ii) in a country with an operational Fulbright U.S. Student Program; and (B) the Bureau shall, for each fellow, approve a work plan that identifies the target objectives for the fellow, including specific duties and responsibilities relating to those objectives.

(2) Conferences; presentations
Each fellow shall— (A) attend the fellowship orientation described in subsection (e);
(B) not later than the date that is 1 year after the end of the fellowship period, attend a fellowship summit organized and administered by the Bureau, which, whenever feasible, shall be held in a location of importance to the civil rights movement in the United States and may coincide with other events facilitated by the Bureau; and (C) at such summit, give a presentation on lessons learned during the period of fellowship.

(3) Fellowship period
Each fellowship under this section shall continue for a period determined by the Bureau, which, whenever feasible, shall be not shorter than 10 months. (g) Fellowship award
The Bureau shall provide each fellow under this section with an allowance that is equal to the amount needed for—

(1) the fellow's reasonable costs during the fellowship period; and 
(2) travel and lodging expenses related to attending the orientation and summit required under subsection (e)(2).
(h) Reports
Not later than 1 year after the date of completion of the Fellowship Program by the initial cohort of fellows selected under subsection (d), and on an annual basis thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report providing information on the implementation of the Fellowship Program, including on— 
(1) the demographics of the cohort of fellows who completed a fellowship during the preceding 1-year period;

(2) a description of internship and research placements, and research projects selected, under the Fellowship Program, including participant feedback on program implementation and feedback of the Department on lessons learned; 
(3) a plan for factoring such lessons learned into future programming; and

(4) an analysis of trends relating to the diversity of the cohorts of fellows and the topics of projects completed over the course of the Fellowship Program.. 3. Technical and conforming amendments to the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961A
Section 112(a) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2460(a)) is amended—

(1) in paragraph (8), by striking ; and  and inserting a semicolon; 
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking the period and inserting ; and; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:  
(10) the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program established under section 115, which provides funding for international internships and research placements for early- to mid-career individuals from the United States to study nonviolent civil rights movements in self-arranged placements with universities or nongovernmental organizations in foreign countries. .
4. Sunset
The authority to carry out the John Lewis Civil Rights Fellowship Program established under section 115 of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), as added by section 2, shall expire on the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this Act. 