
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the PRC Is Not a Developing Country Act.  2. Statement of policy
It should be the policy of the United States—

(1) to oppose the labeling or treatment of the People’s Republic of China as a developing country in any treaty or other international agreement to which the United States is a party; 
(2) to oppose the labeling or treatment of the People’s Republic of China as a developing country in each international organization of which the United States is a member; and

(3) to pursue the labeling or treatment of the People’s Republic of China as an upper middle income country, high income country, or developed country in each international organization of which the United States is a member. 3. Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report identifying all current treaty negotiations in which—

(1) the proposed treaty develops different standards for the enforcement of the treaty based on the development status of the member states of the treaty; and 
(2) the People’s Republic of China is under consideration for becoming a party to the treaty.
4. Mechanisms for changing the development status of the People’s Republic of China

(a) In general
In any international organization of which the United States and the People’s Republic of China are both current member states, the Secretary, in coordination with the heads of other Federal agencies and departments as needed, shall pursue— 
(1) changing the status of the People’s Republic of China from developing country to upper middle income country, high income country, or developed country if a mechanism exists in such organization to make such a change in status; 

(2) proposing the development of a mechanism described in paragraph (1) to change the status of the People’s Republic of China in such organization from developing country to developed country; or 
(3) regardless of efforts made pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), working to ensure that the People’s Republic of China does not receive preferential treatment or assistance within the organization as a result of it having the status of a developing country.
(b) Waiver
The President may waive the application of subsection (a) with respect to any international organization if the President notifies the appropriate committees of Congress, not later than 10 days before the date on which the waiver shall take effect, that such a waiver is in the national interests of the United States. 5. Definitions
In this Act:

(1) Appropriate committees of Congress
The term appropriate committees of Congress means— (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.  
(2) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of State.
