1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Harvesting Knowledge Act of 2023.2. Student support and academic enrichment grants
(a) Programming and activities
Section 4107(a)(3)(C) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7117(a)(3)(C)) is amended—
(1) in clause (v), by striking and at the end;
(2) in clause (vi), by adding and after the semicolon; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following:(vii) providing hands-on learning and exposure to hydroponic or aquaponic agricultural systems by integrating experiential, hands-on learning to enhance the students’ understanding of the STEM subjects as they relate to—(I) agriculture;(II) sustainability topics (including climate change, water resource management, efficient land use, biodiversity, conservation, and sustainable development); and(III) biology-related topics (including plant life cycles, functioning of ecosystems, and adaptation);. (b) Definitions
Section 4102 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7112) is amended by adding at the end the following:
(9) Aeroponic tower system
The term aeroponic tower system means a hydroponic growing system in which plants are grown vertically in an air-based environment where they receive regular misting with water and dissolved nutrients on their stems and roots during the production cycle. 
(10) Agricultural technology and engineering system
The term agricultural technology and engineering system means a system that includes at least one of the following:(A) Nutrient technique film system.(B) Vine crop system.(C) Aeroponic tower system.(D) Other systems as determined by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture.
(11) Aquaponic agriculture system
The term aquaponic agriculture system means a plant production system in which the waste produced from farmed fish or other aquatic animals supplies nutrients for plants grown hydroponically, which in turn purifies the water.
(12) Hydroponic agriculture system
The term hydroponic agriculture system means a plant production system in which plants are grown in a soil-less environment where nutrients are provided by the application of nutrient solutions.
(13) Nutrient technique film system
The term nutrient technique film system means a hydroponic growing system in which a shallow stream of water containing dissolved nutrients is re-circulated past the bare roots of plants in channels during the production cycle.
(14) Vine crop system
The term vine crop system means a hydroponic growing system in which vine crops and other tall fruiting crops (including tomatoes) are grown vertically to maximize the growing space using recirculating water and dissolved nutrients. .