
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Lake Winnibigoshish Land Exchange Act of 2023. 2. Definitions
In this Act:

(1) BWLT
The term BWLT means Big Winnie Land and Timber, LLC, a Minnesota Limited Liability Corporation.  
(2) Map
The term Map means the map entitled Proposed Land Exchange - Big Winnie Land and Timber LLC and Chippewa National Forest and dated January 4, 2023.

(3) Federal land
The term Federal land means the approximately 13.8 acres of Federal land in Itasca County, Minnesota, generally depicted as the Federal Parcel for Exchange on the Map. 
(4) Non-Federal land
The term non-Federal land means the approximately 38 acres of non-Federal land in Itasca County, Minnesota, generally depicted as the Private Parcel for Exchange on the Map.

(5) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service. 3. Exchange of land
 (a) Exchange authorized
Subject to the provisions of this Act, if BWLT offers to convey the non-Federal land to the United States, the Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after receiving the offer—

(1) accept the offer;  
(2) convey to BWLT all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land; and

(3) accept from BWLT all right, title, and interest of BWLT in and to the non-Federal land. (b) Requirements
The exchange under subsection (a) shall be—

(1) subject to valid existing rights; and 
(2) conditioned on a cash equalization payment made by BWLT to the United States in accordance with subsection (c) if, under the appraisals conducted in accordance with this Act, it is determined that the value of the Federal land exceeds the value of the non-Federal land. 
(c) Equal value and cash equalization


(1) In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the exchange under subsection (a) shall be for equal value or the values shall be equalized by a cash payment. 
(2) Exception
If the appraised value of the non-Federal land conveyed to the Secretary exceeds the appraised value of the Federal land, a cash equalization payment by the United States to BWLT is hereby waived and the amount of such waived payment shall be considered a donation by BWLT to the United States for all purposes of law. 
(d) Appraisals


(1) In general
The value of the land to be exchanged under this Act shall be determined by appraisals conducted by one or more independent and qualified appraisers mutually agreed to by the Secretary and BWLT.  
(2) Appraisal standards
The Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the land to be exchanged under this Act in accordance with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; and (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. 
(e) Format
Title to the non-Federal land to be conveyed to the Secretary under this Act shall be in a format acceptable to the Secretary. (f) Management of acquired land
The land acquired by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall be—

(1) added to, and managed as part of, the Chippewa National Forest; and 
(2) managed in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to National Forest System lands.
(g) Map and legal descriptions


(1) In general
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize a Map and legal descriptions of all land to be conveyed under this Act. 
(2) Controlling document
In the case of a discrepancy between the Map and a legal description, the Map shall control. 

(3) Corrections
The Secretary and BWLT, by mutual agreement, may correct any minor errors in the Map or in the legal descriptions, including with respect to the boundaries of the Federal land parcel and the non-Federal land parcel. 
(4) Map on file
The Map and legal descriptions shall be on file and available for public inspection in appropriate offices of the Forest Service.
