
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Economic Opportunity for Border Communities Act. 2. National strategy for supporting economic opportunity in border communities
 (a) Development of national strategy
The Secretary shall develop a national strategy for supporting economic opportunity in border communities. 
(b) Goals of national strategy
The goals of the national strategy developed under subsection (a) are the following: 
(1) Increasing the number of jobs in border communities, with a focus on the following industries:
(A) Logistics. (B) International trade.
(C) Manufacturing. (D) Transportation.
(E) Agriculture. 
(2) Strengthening United States competitiveness in manufacturing.

(3) Reducing the costs of exports and imports. 
(4) Increasing the number of opportunities for workforce development, including by providing vocational training for the industries described in paragraph (1).
(c) Content of national strategy
The national strategy developed under subsection (a) shall include the following: 
(1) Assessment of incentives, including tax incentives, for economic development in border communities.

(2) Recommendations for statutory or regulatory changes necessary to achieve the goals described in subsection (b). 
(3) Coordination with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture to evaluate the role of rural housing, infrastructure, and economic development programs in supporting economic development in border communities.

(4) Coordination with the Secretary of Transportation to evaluate the role of highway and railway infrastructure in supporting economic development in border communities. (d) Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the national strategy developed under subsection (a).
(e) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Border community
The term border community means a municipality not more than 15 miles from a land port of entry. 

(2) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of Commerce.   