
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Veterans for Mustangs Act. 2. Amendments to the Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act
Section 3 of the Act commonly known as the Wild Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act (16 U.S.C. 1333) is amended—

(1) in subsection (b)(2)— (A) by striking that action is necessary and all that follows through until all excess animals have been removed and inserting that action is necessary to reduce the animal population or remove excess animals, the Secretary shall immediately take steps under this paragraph to achieve appropriate management levels. Such action shall be taken, in the following order and priority, until the animal population has been reduced or all excess animals have been removed;
(B) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (C); (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ; and and inserting a period; and
(D) by inserting before subparagraph (B) the following:  (A) The Secretary shall implement nonsurgical, medically safe on-range fertility controls to manage populations of wild free-roaming horses and burros. In implementing such fertility controls, the Secretary, through the Bureau of Land Management, shall prioritize the recruitment of military veterans to train and become certified in the application of fertility controls with respect to wild free-roaming horses and burros, including the certified PZP applicator certification offered by the Science and Conservation Center’s Certification Program. The Secretary shall provide appropriate compensation to military veterans participating in such a certification program. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized to contract with military veterans who have completed the training program under this subparagraph to carry out management activities under this Act. Individuals contracted with pursuant to this subparagraph shall not be regarded as officers or employees of the United States on the basis of such contract. ; and

(2) in subsection (d)— (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) and (4) respectively.   