
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument Expansion Act. 2. Definitions
In this Act:

(1) Board
The term Board means the Board on Geographic Names established by section 2 of the Act of July 25, 1947 (61 Stat. 456, chapter 330; 43 U.S.C. 364a). 
(2) Map
The term Map means the map entitled Proposed Walker Ridge (Molok Luyuk) Addition Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument and dated October 26, 2021.

(3) Molok Luyuk
The term Molok Luyuk means Condor Ridge (in the Patwin language). 
(4) National monument
The term National Monument means the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument established by Presidential Proclamation 9298, dated July 10, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 41975), including all land, interests in the land, and objects on the land identified in that Presidential Proclamation.

(5) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior. 
(6) Walker Ridge (Molok Luyuk) Addition
The term Walker Ridge (Molok Luyuk) Addition means the approximately 3,925 acres of Federal land (including any interests in, or objects on, the land) administered by the Bureau of Land Management in Lake County, California, and identified as Proposed Walker Ridge (Molok Luyuk) Addition on the Map.
3. National monument expansion

(a) Boundary modification
The boundary of the National Monument is modified to include the Walker Ridge (Molok Luyuk) Addition. (b) Map
 
(1) Corrections
The Secretary may make clerical and typographical corrections to the Map.

(2) Public availability; effect
The Map and any corrections to the Map under paragraph (1) shall— (A) be publicly available on the website of the Bureau of Land Management; and
(B) have the same force and effect as if included in this Act. (c) Administration
Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall administer the Walker Ridge (Molok Luyuk) Addition—

(1) as part of the National Monument; 
(2) in accordance with Presidential Proclamation 9298, dated July 10, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 41975); and

(3) in accordance with applicable laws (including regulations). 4. Management plan
 (a) In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly develop a comprehensive management plan for the National Monument in accordance with, and in a manner that fulfills the purposes described in, Presidential Proclamation 9298, dated July 10, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 41975).
(b) Tribal Consultation
The Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with affected federally recognized Indian Tribes in— 
(1) the development of the management plan under subsection (a); and

(2) making management decisions relating to the National Monument. (c) Continued engagement with Indian Tribes
The management plan developed under subsection (a) shall set forth parameters for continued meaningful engagement with affected federally recognized Indian Tribes in the implementation of the management plan.
(d) Effect
Nothing in this Act affects the conduct of fire mitigation or suppression activities at the National Monument, including through the use of existing agreements.  5. Agreements and partnerships
To the maximum extent practicable and in accordance with applicable laws, on request of an affected federally recognized Indian Tribe, the Secretary (acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management) and the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Chief of the Forest Service) shall enter into agreements, contracts, and other cooperative and collaborative partnerships with the federally recognized Indian Tribe regarding management of the National Monument under relevant Federal authority, including—

(1) the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.); 
(2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);

(3) the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5361 et seq.); 
(4) the Tribal Forest Protection Act of 2004 (25 U.S.C. 3115a et seq.);

(5) the good neighbor authority under section 8206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 U.S.C. 2113a);  
(6) Executive Order 13175 (25 U.S.C. 5301 note; relating to consultation and coordination with Indian Tribal governments); 

(7) Secretarial Order 3342, issued by the Secretary on October 21, 2016 (relating to identifying opportunities for cooperative and collaborative partnerships with federally recognized Indian Tribes in the management of Federal lands and resources); and 
(8) Joint Secretarial Order 3403, issued by the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture on November 15, 2021 (relating to fulfilling the trust responsibility to Indian Tribes in the stewardship of Federal lands and waters).
6. Designation of Condor Ridge (Molok Luyuk) in Lake and Colusa Counties, California

(a) In general
The parcel of Federal land administered by the Bureau of Land Management located in Lake and Colusa Counties in the State of California and commonly referred to as Walker Ridge shall be known and designated as Condor Ridge (Molok Luyuk). (b) References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the parcel of Federal land described in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to Condor Ridge (Molok Luyuk).
(c) Map and legal description


(1) Preparation

(A) Initial map
The Board shall prepare a map and legal description of the parcel of Federal land designated by subsection (a). (B) Corrections
The Board and the Director of the Bureau of Land Management may make clerical and typographical corrections to the map and legal description prepared under subparagraph (A).

(2) Consultation
In preparing the map and legal description under paragraph (1)(A), the Board shall consult with— (A) the Director of the Bureau of Land Management; and
(B) affected federally recognized Indian Tribes. 
(3) Public availability; effect
The map and legal description prepared under paragraph (1)(A) and any correction to the map or legal description made under paragraph (1)(B) shall—
(A) be publicly available on the website of the Board, the Bureau of Land Management, or both;  (B) be subject to a public notice and comment period of not less than 30 days; and 
(C) have the same force and effect as if included in this Act. 