
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Pharmacist Conscience Protection Act. 2. Prohibiting discrimination against certain health care providers with certain objections to abortion
Title II of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 202 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 245 the following:

245A. Prohibiting discrimination against certain health care providers with certain objections to abortion

(a) In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal Government, and any person or entity that receives Federal grants, contracts, or financial assistance, including any State or local government, may not penalize, treat adversely, retaliate against, or otherwise discriminate against a specified health care provider, or take any action that has such effect, on the basis that the specified health care provider does not or declines to store or fill a prescription, or make a referral, for a drug that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration to cause an abortion or that the specified health care provider in good faith believes may be used to cause an abortion. (b) Private right of action
 
(1) In general
A qualified party may, in a civil action, obtain appropriate relief, including damages, with regard to a violation of subsection (a) or threat made in violation of subsection (a).

(2) Qualified party
The term qualified party means, with respect to a violation of subsection (a) or threat made in violation of such subsection— (A) the Attorney General of the United States; or
(B) any person or entity adversely affected by such violation or threat without regard to whether such person or entity is a health care provider. (c) Definitions
For purposes of this section: 

(1) Specified health care provider
The term specified health care provider includes a pharmacist, pharmacy technician, pharmacy, or owner of a pharmacy that has an objection to any abortion or all abortions on moral, religious, conscience, or medical judgment grounds. 
(2) State or local government
The term State or local government includes every agency and other governmental unit and subdivision of a State or local government.

(3) State
The term State means any of the 50 States and the District of Columbia and includes Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands. (d) Rules of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to—

(1) require a specified health care provider to prescribe, fill, refer, or stock any drugs or devices; or 
(2) limit any State or Federal laws equally or more protective of conscience or religious freedom..
