
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Northern Border Regional Commission Reauthorization Act of 2023. 2. Regional commissions modifications
 (a) Membership of commissions
Section 15301(b)(2)(C) of title 40, United States Code, is amended—

(1) by striking An alternate member and inserting the following:  (i) In general
An alternate member; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:  (ii) State alternates
If the alternate State member is unable to vote in accordance with clause (i), the alternate State member may delegate voting authority to a designee, subject to the condition that the executive director shall be notified, in writing, of the designation not less than 1 week before the applicable vote is to take place..
(b) Decisions of commissions
Section 15302 of title 40, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting or State alternate members, including designees after State members; and

(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:  (c) Quorums
 
(1) In general
Subject to paragraph (2), a Commission shall determine what constitutes a quorum for meetings of the Commission.

(2) Requirements
Any quorum for meetings of a Commission shall include— (A) the Federal Cochairperson or the alternate Federal Cochairperson; and
(B) a majority of State members or alternate State members, including designees (exclusive of members representing States delinquent under section 15304(c)(3)(C)).. (c) Administrative powers and expenses of commissions
Section 15304(a)(9) of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking maintain a government relations office in the District of Columbia and.
(d) Meetings of commissions
Section 15305(b) of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking with the Federal Cochairperson and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting the following:  with—

(1) the Federal Cochairperson; and 
(2) at least a majority of the State members or alternate State members (including designees) present in-person or via electronic means..
3. Transfer of funds from other Federal agencies

(a) In general
Chapter 153 of subtitle V of title 40, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by redesignating section 15308 as section 15309; and

(2) by inserting after section 15307 the following:  15308. Transfer of funds from other Federal agencies
 (a) In general
Subject to subsection (c), for purposes of this subtitle, each Commission may accept transfers of funds from other Federal agencies.
(b) Transfers
Any Federal agency authorized to carry out an activity that is within the authority of a Commission may transfer to the Commission any appropriated funds for the activity. (c) Treatment
Any funds transferred to a Commission under this section—

(1) shall remain available until expended; and 
(2) may, to the extent necessary to carry out this subtitle, be transferred to, and merged with, the amounts made available by appropriations Acts for the Commission by the Federal Cochairperson..
(b) Clerical amendment
The analysis for chapter 153 of subtitle V of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 15308 and inserting the following:   15308. Transfer of funds from other Federal agencies 15309. Annual reports. 4. Economic and infrastructure development grants
Section 15501 of title 40, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in subsection (a)— (A) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (9) as paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively; 
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively;  (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:


(4) to promote the production of housing to meet economic development and workforce needs;; and (D) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A)) by inserting before the semicolon the following:
, including to plan, construct, acquire equipment, and operate health, nutrition, and child care projects, including hospitals, regional health diagnostic and treatment centers, and other facilities and services, including— (A) the acquisition of privately owned facilities by an eligible entity—
(i) not operated for profit; or (ii) previously operated for profit if the Commission finds that health services would not otherwise be provided in the area served by the facility if the acquisition is not made; and
(B) initial equipment;; 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (7) and inserting paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (8). 
5. Financial assistance

(a) In general
Chapter 155 of subtitle V of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  15507. Discretionary grants
 (a) Grants to which percentage limitation doesn’t apply
Discretionary grants made by a Commission to implement significant regional initiatives, to take advantage of special development opportunities, or to respond to emergency economic distress in the region of the Commission may be made without regard to the percentage limitations described in section 15501(d).
(b) Limitation on aggregate amount
For each fiscal year, the aggregate amount of discretionary grants referred to in subsection (a) shall not be more than 10 percent of the amount made available to carry out this subtitle for the fiscal year. 15508. Payment of non-Federal share for certain Federal grant programs
Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating to payment of a non-Federal share of a project carried out under a Federal grant program, amounts made available to carry out this subtitle shall be available for the payment of such a non-Federal share for any project for which a Commission is not the sole or primary funding source, subject to the condition that the project is consistent with the purposes of the Commission..
(b) Clerical amendment
The analysis for chapter 155 of subtitle V of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:   15507. Discretionary grants 15508. Payment of non-Federal share for certain Federal grant programs. 6. Northern Border Regional Commission
 (a) Counties in Maine, New Hampshire and New York
Section 15733 of title 40, United States Code, is amended—

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting Lincoln, after Knox,;  
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting Merrimack, after Grafton,; and

(3) in paragraph (3)— (A) by inserting Schoharie after Schenectady,; and
(B) by inserting Wyoming after Wayne,.  (b) Authorization of appropriations
Section 15751 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

(a) In general
There are authorized to be appropriated to each Commission to carry out this subtitle $40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027 and $45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2028 through 2032. . 