1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Securing Our Students Act.2. Elementary and secondary school emergency relief fund
A local educational agency that receives funds under section 2001 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 U.S.C. 3401 note) may use funds not reserved under subsection (e)(1) of such section for school safety uses (in addition to the purposes specified in subsection (e)(2) of such section).3. Emergency assistance to non-public schools
A non-public school that receives services or assistance under section 2002 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 U.S.C. 3401 note) may use such services or assistance for school safety uses (in addition to any services or assistance authorized under the Emergency Assistance to Non-Public Schools Program).4. Application amendment
(a) In general

(1) Elementary and secondary school emergency relief fund
A State making subgrants under section 2001(d) of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 U.S.C. 3401 note) shall, not later than 10 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, inform local educational agencies eligible to receive such subgrants that the agencies may amend their subgrant applications to include school safety uses among the planned uses of funds not reserved under section 2001(e)(1) of such Act. 
(2) Emergency assistance to non-public schools
A Governor providing services or assistance to non-public schools under section 2002 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 U.S.C. 3401 note) shall, not later than 10 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, inform non-public schools eligible to receive such services and assistance that the schools may amend their applications to include school safety uses among the requested services and assistance.(b) Contents
An amendment authorized under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) what school safety uses are desired to be implemented and how such uses will support known needs for the local educational agency or non-public school; 
(2) an assurance that such uses will be evidence-based;
(3) what professional development for school personnel will be conducted to ensure compliance and understanding of the new school safety uses;
(4) when the implementation of such uses will be completed; and
(5) an assurance that school safety uses shall be included in any required reporting under the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 U.S.C. 3401 note).(c) Approval
A State or Governor shall approve expeditiously an amendment authorized under subsection (a) if it satisfies the requirements of subsection (b).(d) Reporting
A State or Governor shall report to the Secretary of Education what percentage of the funds provided to the State or Governor under section 2001 or 2002 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (20 U.S.C. 3401 note), respectively, are used for school safety uses.5. Definitions
For purposes of this Act:
(1) The term local educational agency has the meaning given such term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(2) The term school safety uses means improving school conditions for student learning by planning and designing school buildings and facilities, installing infrastructure, providing safety education for all school personnel and volunteers, and implementing technology or other measures, that strengthen security on school premises, which may include—(A) controlling access to school premises or facilities, through the use of metal detectors or other measures, including technology, in accordance with the particular needs of a school;(B) infrastructure—(i) to cover and conceal students within a school during crisis situations;(ii) for school safety reinforcement, including bullet-resistant doors and windows; and(iii) for classroom access security measures;(C) developing methods to provide notification to, and communicate with, relevant law enforcement, first responders, hospitals, and other necessary officials during a crisis situation;(D) hiring school security officers, including school resource officers, to increase the safety of school students and staff; and(E) developing a communications system that can more rapidly and accurately communicate information to parents, including providing status updates during and after a crisis situation.