
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Safe Schools Act. 2. Additional funds for school security
 (a) In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of an ESSERF program or any other law, a State or local educational agency that has received funds under an ESSERF program may, in lieu of the original requested or authorized use for such funds, use a portion of, or all, of the unexpended funds to carry out 1 or more school security measures. 
(b) No Federal interference
The Secretary of Education shall not— 
(1) prevent or discourage any State or local educational agency from using any ESSERF program funds for school security measures; 

(2) require the use of funds under subsection (a) to be in response to, or in any way connected with, the coronavirus; or 
(3) enforce any requirement of an ESSERF program if such requirement would prevent a State or local educational agency from carrying out a school security measure authorized under subsection (a).
(c) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) ESSERF program
The term ESSERF program means a program carried out under—
(A) section 18003 of the CARES Act (20 U.S.C. 3401 note; Public Law 116–136); (B) section 313 of division M of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116–260; 134 Stat. 1929); or 
(C) section 2001 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117–2; 135 Stat. 19).  
(2) School security measure
The term school security measure means any of the following:
(A) An evidence-based strategy or program to prevent violence, which may include the use of appropriate technologies, including the placement and use of metal detectors and other deterrent measures and emergency notification and response technologies. (B) Training to prevent student violence against others and self, including training for local law enforcement officers, school personnel, and students.
(C) The development and operation of an anonymous reporting system for threats of school violence, including a mobile telephone application, hotline, or internet website. (D) The development and operation of—
(i) a school threat assessment and intervention team that may include coordination with law enforcement agencies and school personnel; and (ii) specialized training for school officials in responding to mental health crises.
(E)  Coordination with local law enforcement agencies. (F) A security assessment.
(G) Security training of personnel and students. (H) Acquisition and installation of technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency.
(I) Reinforcing or replacing classroom doors, locks, or window panels. (J) Constructing fencing, bollards, planters, curbs, walls, or any other entry control measure to create a single point of entry to the campus.
(K) Clearing exterior spaces of foliage or structures to eliminate spaces that could conceal illicit activity, provide access to the building above the first floor, or otherwise aid an intruder. (L) Installing a system to monitor hallways, stairwells, and utility rooms, such as physical inspection or surveillance cameras.
(M) Hiring and paying the salaries of qualified individuals, such as retired law enforcement officers or military veterans, to serve as armed school resource officers. 