
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the National Flood Insurance Program Affordability Act.  2. Means-tested assistance for national flood insurance program policyholders
 (a) In general
The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, establish a means-tested program under which the Administrator provides assistance to eligible policyholders in the form of graduated discounts for insurance costs with respect to covered properties.
(b) Discounts
The Administrator shall use amounts provided under this section to establish graduated discounts available to eligible policyholders under this section, with respect to covered properties, such that the chargeable premium rate for an eligible policyholder that applies for assistance under this section may not exceed 1 percent of the area median income for the area in which the property to which the policy applies is located. (c) Application
To receive assistance under this Act, an eligible policyholder shall submit an application to the Administrator at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may reasonably require and assistance will no longer be available when the amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (f) have been expended for a fiscal year. 
(d) Rulemaking and guidance
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue such regulations and guidance as the Administrator determines necessary to carry out this Act, including a hardship metric for small businesses and not-for-profit entities to qualify for assistance under this Act.  (e) Report
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall submit to the Congress, a report that—

(1) addresses the feasibility of making eligibility for assistance under the program established under this Act based on a consideration of an eligible policyholder’s principal, interest, taxes, and insurance instead of household income as a percent of area medium income; and 
(2) outlines how the Administrator could use income eligibility for other Federal programs to determine eligibility for participation in the program established under this Act. 
(f) Appropriation


(1) In general
There is appropriated, annually, to the Administrator, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $250,000,000, to carry out the program established by the Administrator under subsection (a).  
(2) Expenditure requirement
The Administrator shall, each fiscal year, expend not less than 95 percent of the amount appropriated for such fiscal year under paragraph (1). 
3. Monthly installment payment for premiums
 Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall— 
(1) implement the requirement for monthly installment payments of premiums provided under section 1308(g) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(g)); or

(2) submit to Congress an explanation of the reasons why the Administrator cannot implement the requirement described in paragraph (1) during that 180-day period. 4. Definitions
In this Act:

(1) Administrator
The term Administrator means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
(2) Covered property
The term covered property means—
(A) a primary residential dwelling; or (B) personal property relating to a dwelling described in subparagraph (A).

(3) Eligible policyholder
The term eligible policyholder means— (A) a person who—
(i) is a national flood insurance program policyholder on or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and (ii) has a household income that is not more than 120 percent of the area median income for the area in which the property to which the policy applies is located;
(B) a business with not more than 100 employees that— (i) is a national flood insurance program policyholder on or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
(ii) satisfies the hardship metric published by the Administrator under section 2; or (C) a not-for-profit organization that—
(i) is a national flood insurance program policyholder on or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and (ii) satisfies the hardship metric published by the Administrator under section 2.

(4) Insurance costs
The term insurance costs means, with respect to a covered property for a year— (A) risk premiums and fees estimated under section 1307 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4014) and charged under section 1308 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4015);
(B) surcharges assessed under sections 1304 and 1308A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4011, 4015a); and (C) any amount established under section 1310A(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4017a).
