1. Short title; findings
(a) Short title
This Act may be cited as the Safe Storage Lockers for House Office Buildings Act.(b) Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1) In 2021, there were 2,654 violent crime incidents in the District of Columbia, and 2,900 offenses reported in the District of Columbia by 2 law enforcement agencies that submitted National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) data which covered the entire population of the District.
(2) Many employees of the House of Representatives who work in House Office Buildings in the District of Columbia commute to and from their offices by walking, and many have themselves been victims of these crimes in the District of Columbia.
(3) Individuals in the District of Columbia are authorized under District of Columbia law to carry and use certain weapons for self-defense, including self-defense sprays, stun guns, and concealed firearms. However, District of Columbia and Federal law prohibit individuals from carrying these weapons inside a Federal building.
(4) As a result, employees of the House of Representatives who work in House Office Buildings in the District of Columbia are prohibited from carrying weapons inside the buildings in which they work, even if these employees are authorized under District of Columbia law to carry and use these weapons for self-defense outside these buildings.2. Authorizing House employees to bring certain self-defense weapons into House office buildings
(a) Authorization
An individual who is an employee of the House of Representatives may bring a weapon described in subsection (b) into a House office building if—
(1) the individual is authorized under the laws of the District of Columbia to carry the weapon outside of the building;
(2) immediately prior to entering the building, the individual is carrying the weapon in compliance with such laws;
(3) the individual enters the building through an external pedestrian entrance;
(4) upon entering the building with the weapon, the individual leaves the weapon in a storage locker operated by the United States Capitol Police under section 3 while the individual remains in the building; and
(5) after retrieving the weapon from the locker, the individual leaves the building immediately.(b) Weapons described
The weapons described in this subsection are as follows:
(1) A self-defense spray described in section 212 of the Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975 (sec. 7–2502.12, D.C. Official Code).
(2) A stun gun described in section 101(17A) of the Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975 (sec. 7–2501.01(17A), D.C. Official Code).
(3) A firearm described in section 101(9) of the Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975 (sec. 7–2501.01(9), D.C. Official Code).3. Provision of safe storage lockers at building entrances
(a) Responsibilities of Capitol Police Board
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Capitol Police Board shall design, install, and operate storage lockers at external pedestrian entrances to each House office building, which may be used while an employee of the House is in the building to safely store a weapon which the employee brings into the building under section 2, and from which the employee may retrieve the weapon when the employee leaves the building.(b) Regulations
The Capitol Police Board shall promulgate such regulations as may be required to carry out this section.(c) Conforming amendment
Section 5104(e)(1)(A) of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking except as authorized and inserting except as provided under the Safe Storage Lockers for House Office Buildings Act or as authorized. 4. Definitions
(a) Employee of the House of Representatives
In this Act, an employee of the House of Representatives includes an intern (whether paid or unpaid) and a fellow assigned to an office of the House of Representatives.(b) House office building

(1) In general
In this Act, the term House office building means any of the following:(A) The Cannon House Office Building.(B) The Longworth House Office Building.(C) The Rayburn House Office Building.(D) The Ford House Office Building.(E) The O’Neill House Office Building.(F) The House wing of the United States Capitol.
(2) Exclusion of garages
The term House office building does not include a garage of a building described in paragraph (1).