1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Turn Off Federal Funding of Threatening Entities that Thwart American Prosperity Act or the Turn OFF THE TAP Act.2. Prohibition on providing Federal funds to certain entities subject to sanctions imposed by the United States
(a) Prohibition on Federal contracts
The head of an executive agency may not enter into, renew, or extend a contract with a covered entity.(b) Prohibition on provision of Federal funds
No amounts provided by the Federal Government to any entity may be used by that entity to purchase goods or services from, invest in, enter into contract with, or otherwise provide funding to a covered entity.(c) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Covered entity
The term covered entity means any of the following:(A) An entity on the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury (commonly referred to as the SDN list).(B) An entity on the Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List—(i) established pursuant to Executive Order 13959 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to addressing the threat from securities investments that finance Communist Chinese military companies), as amended before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act; and(ii) maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.(C) A Chinese military company on the list required by section 1260H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10 U.S.C. 113 note). (D) An entity on the Entity List maintained by the Bureau of Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce and set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations. (E) An entity that produces equipment or services on the list of communications equipment and services that pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons maintained by the Federal Communications Commission under section 2 of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1601).(F) Any entity that is owned or controlled by, or under common ownership or control with, an entity described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (E).
(2) Executive agency
The term executive agency has the meaning given the term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.