
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Prime Minister Golda Meir Commemorative Coin Act. 2. Findings
 (a) Congress finds the following:

(1) Prime Minister of Israel Golda Meir was born on May 3, 1898, in Kyiv, Ukraine. 
(2) Prime Minister Golda Meir moved to Milwaukee, Wisconsin with her family in 1906.

(3) Growing up in a time where women were not expected to receive an education and pursue a career, Prime Minister Golda Meir fought against the status quo and defied her parents by moving to Denver, Colorado to live with her sister. 
(4) In 1921, Prime Minister Golda Meir emigrated with her husband to Mandatory Palestine where she worked as head of the Political Department of the Jewish Agency for Palestine, the chief Jewish liaison with the British, during World War II.

(5) When the State of Israel declared its independence in 1948, Prime Minister Golda Meir was a signer of its declaration of independence. 
(6) Prime Minister Golda Meir served as the fourth Prime Minister of the State of Israel from 1969 to 1974.

(7) Prime Minister Golda Meir is remembered today as the first female Prime Minister of the State of Israel and a trailblazer for women’s rights. 
(8) Prime Minister Golda Meir is additionally remembered for the unique relationship she had with the United States and its people, evident by her adorning the cover of Time Magazine in 1969 and being voted by the people of the United States as Gallup’s Most Admired Woman in 1971, 1973, and 1974.
(b) Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to honor and commemorate— 
(1) the 75th anniversary of the United States-Israel relationship;

(2) the first female Prime Minister of the State of Israel, Golda Meir; and 
(3) the unique relationship Prime Minister Golda Meir had with the United States.
3. Coin specifications

(a) Denominations
In commemoration of the late Prime Minister Golda Meir and the 75th anniversary of the United States-Israel relationship, the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the Secretary) shall mint and issue the following coins: 
(1) $5 gold coins
Not more than 50,000 $5 coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 8.359 grams; (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
(C) contain at least 90 percent gold. 
(2) $1 silver coins
Not more than 400,000 $1 coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 26.73 grams; (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
(C) contain at least 90 percent silver. 
(3) Half-dollar clad coins
Not more than 750,000 half-dollar coins which shall—
(A) weigh 11.34 grams; (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
(C) be minted to the specifications for half-dollar coins contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United States Code. (b) Legal tender
The coins minted under this Act shall be legal tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
(c) Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 4. Design of coins
 (a) Design requirements
 
(1) In general
The design of the coins minted under this Act shall bear an image of and the name of Prime Minister Golda Meir on the obverse side.

(2) Designation and inscriptions
On each coin minted under this Act, there shall be— (A) a designation of the value of the coin;
(B) an inscription of Golda Meir, Israel 75, and the year 2026; and (C) inscriptions of the words Liberty, In God We Trust, United States of America, and E Pluribus Unum.
(b) Selection
The design for the coins minted under this Act shall be— 
(1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the American Friends of Kiryat Sanz Laniado Hospital Inc.; and

(2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee. 5. Issuance of coins
 (a) Quality of coins
Coins minted under this Act shall be issued in uncirculated and proof qualities.
(b) Mint facility
Only 1 facility of the United States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality of the coins minted under this Act. (c) Period for issuance
The Secretary may issue coins under this Act only during the period beginning on January 1, 2026, and ending on December 31, 2026.
6. Sale of coins

(a) Sale price
The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at the price equal to the sum of— 
(1) the face value of the coins;

(2) the surcharge provided under section 7(a) with respect to the coins; and 
(3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping).
(b) Bulk sales
The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins issued under this Act at a reasonable discount. (c) Prepaid orders
 
(1) In general
The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of the coins.

(2) Discount
Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount. 7. Surcharges
 (a) In general
All sales of coins issued under this Act shall include—

(1) a surcharge of $35 per coin for the $5 coins; 
(2) a surcharge of $10 per coin for the $1 coins; and

(3) a surcharge of $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin. (b) Distribution
Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, United States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this Act shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the American Friends of Kiryat Sanz Laniado Hospital Inc. for the purpose of—

(1) the continued growth of, support for, and the promotion of Kiryat Sanz Laniado Hospital; and 
(2) the furtherance of the missions and goals of Kiryat Sanz Laniado Hospital. 
(c) Audits
The American Friends of Kiryat Sanz Laniado Hospital Inc. shall be subject to the audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States Code, with respect to the amounts received under subsection (b). (d) Limitation
Notwithstanding subsection (a), no surcharge may be included with respect to the issuance under this Act of any coin during a calendar year if, as of the time of such issuance, the issuance of such coin would result in the number of commemorative coin programs issued during such year to exceed the annual 2 commemorative coin program issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, United States Code (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act). The Secretary may issue guidance to carry out this subsection.
8. Financial assurances
The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that— 
(1) minting and issuing coins under this Act result will not result in any net cost to the United States Government; and

(2) no funds, including applicable surcharges are disbursed to any recipient designated in section 7 until the total cost of designing and issuing all of the coins authorized by this Act (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping) is recovered by the United States Treasury, consistent with sections 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United States Code.  