1. Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1) Congressman John James Conyers, Jr., was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1929.
(2) Conyers served in the Michigan National Guard from 1948 to 1950, the United States Army from 1950 to 1954 (1 year of which he was an officer in the Korean War with the Corps of Engineers), and the Army Reserves from 1954 to 1957.
(3) Conyers resumed his studies at Wayne State University and earned a Bachelor of Arts in 1957 and Bachelor of Laws in 1958.
(4) Conyers was a leader in the Civil Rights Movement, being present in Selma, Alabama on October 7, 1963, for the Freedom Day voter registration drive.
(5) Conyers was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1964 and was reelected 25 times.
(6) Conyers was the first African-American Dean of the United States House of Representatives, having been the longest-serving member from 2015 to 2017.
(7) Conyers was the longest-serving African-American member of the United States House of Representatives, the third longest-serving member of the United States House of Representatives, and the sixth longest-serving member of Congress in history.
(8) Conyers was the second-longest serving member of the congressional delegation of Michigan, trailing only Congressman John Dingell.
(9) Conyers was one of the 13 founding members of the Congressional Black Caucus and was considered the Dean of the group.
(10) Conyers was the first African American to serve on the Judiciary Committee. 
(11) Conyers was the first member to introduce the Commission to Study Reparation Proposals for America Americans Act, which calls for the establishment of a commission to research the history of slavery in the United States and its effects on current society.
(12) Conyers introduced the United States National Health Care Act, which calls for the creation of a universal single-payer health care system in the United States, in which the government would provide every resident health care free of charge.
(13) For 52 years, Conyers served his country in Congress and became an acclaimed lawmaker and civil rights icon with a strong reputation that extended far beyond Michigan.
(14) Conyers always displayed advocacy on behalf of civil rights, social justice, and workers' rights.
(15) At the end of his political tenure, Conyers faced accusations of sexual harassment. Fully recognizing the pain that those failures caused, Conyers’ legacy as a champion of civil rights and social justice remains a significant part of American history.
(16) Conyers resigned from Congress on December 5, 2017.
(17) Conyers continued to live in Detroit, Michigan, until his death on October 27, 2019, at the age of 90.
(18) Above all else, Congressman Conyers was a loving and devoted leader and a fighter for his community. 2. Designation
To designate the Federal building located at 985 Michigan Avenue in Detroit, Michigan, as the John Conyers Federal Building.3. References
Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the Federal building and United States courthouse referred to in section 2 shall be deemed to be a reference to the John Conyers Federal Building.