
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Expanding Childcare in Rural America Act of 2023. 2. Expanding Childcare in Rural America Initiative
 (a) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Childcare

(A) In general
The term childcare means any program that— (i) provides quality care and early education for young children who—
(I) are in kindergarten; or (II) have not yet entered kindergarten; and
(ii) is operated by— (I) an eligible childcare provider described in section 658P(6)(A) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858n(6)(A)); or
(II) a childcare provider that, on the date of enactment of this Act— (aa) is licensed, regulated, or registered in the State, territory, or Indian Tribe in which the provider is located; and
(bb) meets applicable State, Tribal, territorial, and local health and safety requirements. (B) Inclusions
The term childcare includes—
(i) a school-based program described in subparagraph (A); (ii) a facility used for a program described in subparagraph (A); and
(iii) a service provided under a program described in subparagraph (A). 
(2) Initiative
The term Initiative means the Expanding Childcare in Rural America Initiative established under subsection (b).

(3) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture. (b) Establishment
The Secretary shall establish an initiative, to be known as the Expanding Childcare in Rural America Initiative, under which the Secretary shall provide, for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028, priority in accordance with subsection (c) to address the availability, quality, and cost of childcare in agricultural and rural communities. 
(c) Childcare priorities


(1) In general
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in selecting recipients of loans and grants under a program described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall give priority to any qualified applicant that proposes to use the loan or grant to address the availability, quality, or cost of childcare in an agricultural or rural community. 
(2) Description of programs
The programs referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
(A) The essential community facilities loan and grant programs authorized under section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)). (B) The technical assistance and training grant program authorized under section 306(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)).
(C) The rural business development grant program authorized under section 310B(c) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(c)). (D) The business and industry direct and guaranteed loan program authorized under section 310B(g) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)).
(E) The rural microentrepreneur assistance program authorized under section 379E of that Act (7 U.S.C. 2008s). (F) The rural innovation stronger economy (RISE) grant program authorized under section 379I of that Act (7 U.S.C. 2008w).
(d) Requirements
In providing funding in accordance with the Initiative, the Secretary shall— 
(1) give priority to communities in farming-dependent counties, as described in the 2015 county typology codes published by the Economic Research Service (as revised); and

(2) ensure a balanced geographical distribution of the benefits under the Initiative. (e) Use of intermediaries
In providing funding in accordance with the Initiative, the Secretary may make awards through a childcare resource and referral organization, a staffed family childcare network, a community development financial institution, a nonprofit organization, or a network of nonprofit organizations, with demonstrated expertise in— 

(1) providing technical or financial assistance for the acquisition, construction, renovation, or improvement of childcare facilities; 
(2) providing technical, financial, or managerial assistance to childcare providers; or

(3) securing private sources of capital financing for childcare or other low-income community development. (f) Evaluation; report
 
(1) Evaluation
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the projects carried out using assistance provided under the Initiative, including—
(A) a description of— (i) the types of projects carried out;
(ii) the communities in which the projects are carried out; (iii) the organizations and entities participating in the projects; and
(iv) the types of partnerships developed to carry out the projects; and (B) the economic and social impacts of the investments in the projects.

(2) Report
Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives a report describing the evaluation conducted under paragraph (1), including a thorough analysis of the outcomes of the evaluation. 