1. Short title
This Act may be cited as Thomas W. Dortch, Jr. Congressional Gold Medal Act. 2. Findings
The Congress finds the following:
(1) Thomas W. Dortch, Jr., was born April 12, 1950, in Toccoa, Georgia, to Lizzie Dortch and Thomas W. Dortch, Sr., and went on to become an influential leader and mentor as well as a successful businessperson and crusader for equal justice.
(2) After graduating from Whitman Street High School in 1968, Dortch attended Fort Valley State University in Fort Valley, Georgia, and graduated with a bachelor of arts in sociology in 1972. That year, he began his formal career by seeking to aid disenfranchised people through proposing projects for the State of Georgia. In 1974, he became the associate director of the Georgia Democratic Party. In 1978, Dortch began working as an administrative aide for Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and eventually became State Director, the first African American to serve in this position. Dortch worked tirelessly to represent the interests of small businesses, minorities, and other marginalized individuals and institutions.
(3) In 1986, Dortch joined the 100 Black Men of America, an international mentoring program intended to improve the quality of life and opportunities for education and employment for African Americans. He served as chairman of 100 Black Men of Atlanta and became the chairman of 100 Black Men of America’s national board of directors. That same year, he earned his master of arts in criminal justice administration from Clark Atlanta University and married Carole Dortch.
(4) In 1994, after more than 16 years of government service, Dortch left his position to pursue his own business interests. He became CEO of the consulting firm TWD, Inc., and Atlanta Transportation Systems, Inc., a Fulton County paratransit company. He still holds both positions.
(5) Dortch has won numerous awards highlighting his achievements, including a Presidential Citation for volunteerism from President Barack Obama, the Martin Luther King, Jr., Distinguished Service Award, and the Concerned Black Clergy’s Salute to Black Fathers Leadership Award. Dortch has four children. His unique and substantial contributions across America in lifting marginalized people, communities, and institutions that continue to struggle for economic mobility, access to greater opportunities, equity, and equality for all people.
(6) Dortch is an institution builder that included founding the National Black College Alumni Hall of Fame Foundation, Inc., cofounding the Georgia Association of Minority Entrepreneurs (GAME) to fill a void as an advocacy organization for minority business development, and cofounding the Greater Atlanta Economic Alliance as a capacity building and business development organization for the construction and transportation industries.
(7) Dortch is the recipient of numerous awards and honors that celebrate his efforts, a partial list includes: listed in the 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004 May editions of Ebony magazine as one of the 100 Most Influential African Americans; listed in Spring 2001 through 2014 Publications of Atlanta Business Chronicle as one of the 100 Most Influential Atlantans; 2008 Community Service Professional of the Year Award; 2008 FraserNet Community Service Award; and 2008 Global Leadership Empowerment Award.
(8) Dortch’s volunteer board service includes serving on the Board of Trustees of Leadership Atlanta, Vice Chairman of the Board, Grady Memorial Hospital Corporation, Chairman of the Board, Friendship Force International, Chairman of the Board, Fulton/DeKalb County Hospital Authority; 2010 was inducted into Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau’s Atlanta Hospitality Hall of Fame; three-term Chairman of the Board, The Atlanta Business League: Chair, Fort Valley State University Foundation Board, Member of Operation Hope Board of Trustees, Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University Board of Trustees, Talladega College Board of Trustees, Clark Atlanta University Board of Trustees, and Chairman of the Board, National Coalition on Black Civic Participation.
(9) In 2019, Dortch was inducted into the International Civil Rights Walk of Fame. The Civil Rights Walk of Fame was created to recognize the courageous soldiers of justice who sacrificed and struggled to make equality a reality for all. Dortch’s footstep impression joined those of civil and human rights icons, such as Rosa Parks, Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu, Ambassador Andrew Young, Congressman John Lewis, and others.
(10) Dortch’s philanthropic and investment advice and counsel, particularly to corporate America, have benefitted countless minority organizations, institutions, and communities across America to realize and grow their programming and impact.
(11) Dortch received honorary doctors degrees from Fayetteville State University, Jarvis Christian College, Fort Valley State University, University of Maryland Eastern Shore, and Livingstone College.
(12) Dortch was recently honored by Clark Atlanta University and the National Coalition on Black Civic Participation in 2021 with the creation of the NCBCP Thomas W. Dortch, Jr., Institute for Leadership, Civic Engagement, Economic Empowerment, and Social Justice.3. Congressional gold medal
(a) Presentation authorization
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Thomas W. Dortch, Jr., in recognition of his unique and substantial contributions across America in lifting marginalized people, communities, and institutions that continue to struggle for economic mobility, access to greater opportunities, equity, and equality for all people.(b) Design and striking
For the purposes of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the Secretary) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.4. Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses.5. Status of medals
(a) National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.(b) Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.6. Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
(a) Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.(b) Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund. 