
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Minorities in Aviation Education Act of 2023. 2. Bessie Coleman Aviation Education Program
 (a) In general
The Secretary of Transportation shall establish the Bessie Coleman Aviation Education Program to provide grants to eligible entities to improve the preparation and representation of students, particularly women and minorities, in aviation-related fields.
(b) Authorized activities
A grant awarded under this section may only be used for activities that increase exposure and access to aviation-related education and jobs through such means as— 
(1) internships, apprenticeships, or scholarships that offer students experience in the aviation industry;

(2) programs that introduce students to unmanned aircraft systems (as the term is defined in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code); 
(3) career exploration and educational programs that teach technical skills used in aviation maintenance, or to improve existing such programs; and

(4) programs to increase the recruitment and retention of underrepresented minorities in postsecondary aviation degree programs. (c) Application and review procedures
 
(1) In general
An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a description of how grant funds will be used to increase exposure and access to aviation-related education and jobs.

(2) Priority
In reviewing and selecting applications for grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants that propose to use grant funds to encourage the participation of women, minorities, and individuals in rural and urban areas in the aviation industry. 
(3) Partnership with other entities
An eligible entity may enter into a partnership agreement with an institution of higher education, a nonprofit organization, or another entity, to carry out activities with a grant awarded under this section.
(d) Grant amount
The maximum amount of a grant awarded under this section in a fiscal year shall be $500,000. (e) Definitions
In this subsection:

(1) Eligible entity
The term eligible entity means— (A) a local educational agency;
(B) a State educational agency; and (C) a State or local government.

(2) Institution of higher education
The term institution of higher education has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001). 
(3) Local educational agency
The term local educational agency has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).

(4) State educational agency
The term State educational agency has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801). (f) Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, and 2027.
