
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Improving Reentry for District of Columbia Residents in the Bureau of Prisons Act of 2023.  2. Placement near District of Columbia for certain individuals in custody of Bureau of Prisons
 (a) In general
Beginning not later than two years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall not place a covered individual in a Bureau of Prisons facility that is located more than 250 miles from the District of Columbia, unless such individual requests or consents to such a placement. 
(b) Extraordinary circumstances


(1) In general
Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Director may place a covered individual in a Bureau of Prisons facility that is more than 250 miles from the District of Columbia if the Director determines that extraordinary circumstances warrant such a placement.  
(2) Report required
Not longer than 30 days after a placement under paragraph (1), the Director shall provide a written explanation to the covered congressional committees on the extraordinary circumstances warranting such a placement.
(c) Rule of construction
Nothing in this Act may be constructed to prohibit the Director from placing a covered individual in prerelease custody pursuant to section 3624(g)(2) of title 18, United States Code, or on transferring an individual to begin a term of supervised release pursuant to section 3624(g)(3) of title 18, United States Code.  (d) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Covered Congressional Committees
The term covered congressional committees means the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate. 
(2) Covered individual
The term covered individual means an individual committed to the custody of the Bureau of Prisons pursuant to chapter 1 of subtitle C of title XI of the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (sec. 24–101 et seq., D.C. Official Code) who is a resident of the District of Columbia at the time at which the individual was sentenced. 
