1. Land withdrawal and reservation
(a) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Agreement
The term Agreement means the agreement between the United States and the Association dated September 6, 1917.
(2) Association
The term Association means the Salt River Valley Water Users' Association. 
(3) Covered land
The term covered land means the portion of the National Forest System land located on the south side of the Salt River from the March 9, 1903, 1-mile withdrawal area for Reclamation purposes extending an additional 2 miles from the Salt River at Roosevelt Dam to 18.25 river miles downstream, not including the Superstition Mountain Wilderness Area and the Tonto National Monument, as depicted on the Map.
(4) District
The term District means the Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District.
(5) Map
The term Map means the map prepared under subsection (e)(1).
(6) SRP
The term SRP means—(A) the District; and (B) the Association.(b) Reservation of covered land
Subject to valid existing rights, the covered land is reserved to the United States, through the Secretary of the Interior, for the exclusive right to use the covered land and interests in the covered land for the development, generation, and transmission of electrical power and energy for the use and benefit of the Salt River Federal Reclamation Project pursuant to the Agreement. (c) Withdrawal of covered land
The covered land is permanently withdrawn from—
(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.(d) Title to facilities
With respect to facilities constructed by SRP on the covered land for the development, generation, and transmission of electrical power and energy—
(1) title shall be held by the United States as part of the Salt River Federal Reclamation Project pursuant to—(A) section 6 of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 389, chapter 1093; 43 U.S.C. 498); and (B) the Agreement; and
(2) SRP shall be responsible for the care, operation, and maintenance pursuant to the Agreement. (e) Map

(1) In general
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare a map depicting the boundary of the covered land.
(2) Availability
The Map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service and the Bureau of Reclamation.