
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Mental Health Workforce and Language Access Act of 2023. 2. Demonstration program to increase language access at eligible health centers
 (a) Grants
The Secretary shall carry out a demonstration program consisting of awarding supplemental grants under section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b) to eligible health centers to recruit, hire, employ, and supervise qualified behavioral health professionals who—

(1) are proficient in speaking and understanding both spoken English and at least one other spoken language, including any necessary specialized vocabulary, terminology, and phraseology; 
(2) are able to effectively, accurately, and impartially communicate directly with limited English proficient individuals in their primary language; and

(3) are, or will be, employed— (A) directly by the eligible health center; or
(B) through a contract between the eligible health center and the qualified behavioral health professional that provides for supervision of the professional by the health center in order to provide behavioral health services in another language. (b) Preference
In selecting grant recipients under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give preference to eligible health centers at which at least 10 percent of the patients are best served in a language other than English, as indicated by data in the Uniform Data System (or any successor database).
(c) Marketing
An eligible health center receiving a grant under this section shall use a portion of the grant funds to disseminate information about, and otherwise market, the behavioral health services supported through the grant. (d) Reports
 
(1) Initial report
Not later than 6 months after the first grants are awarded under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committees on Appropriations and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and other appropriate congressional committees, a report on the implementation of the program under this section. Such report shall include—
(A) the languages spoken by the qualified behavioral health professionals recruited pursuant to a grant under subsection (a); (B) the eligible health center at which each such professional was placed;
(C) how many eligible health centers received grants under subsection (a); (D) an analysis, conducted in consultation with the eligible health centers receiving grants under subsection (a), of the effectiveness of such grants at increasing language access to behavioral health services; and
(E) best practices, developed in consultation with eligible health centers receiving grants under subsection (a), for the recruitment and retention of qualified behavioral health professionals at such health centers. 
(2) Final report
Not later than the end of fiscal year 2026, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committees on Appropriations and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and other appropriate congressional committees, a final report on the implementation of the program under this section, including the information, analysis, and best practices described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1).
(e) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) The term eligible health center means a health center (as defined in section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b)) that is already receiving assistance pursuant to one or more grants under such section 330 at the time of the award to such health center of a supplemental grant under subsection (a).

(2) The term qualified behavioral health professional means— (A) a behavioral and mental health professional (as defined in section 331(a)(3)(E)(i) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)(E)(i)));
(B) substance use disorder counselor; (C) an occupational therapist; or
(D) an individual who— (i) has not yet been licensed or certified to serve as a professional listed in any of subparagraphs (A) through (C); and
(ii) will serve at the eligible health center under the supervision of a licensed individual or certified professional so listed. 
(3) The term Secretary means the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
(f) Authorization of appropriations


(1) In general
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2029. 
(2) Supplement not supplant
Amounts made available to carry out this section shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available to carry out section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b).
