
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Find and Protect Foster Youth Act. 2. Eliminating obstacles to identifying and responding to reports of children missing from foster care and other vulnerable foster youth
Section 476 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 676) is amended by adding at the end the following:

(f) Evaluation of protocols relating to children missing from foster care and other vulnerable youth; technical assistance


(1) In general
The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of the protocols established by States in accordance with the requirements of section 471(a)(35) and, to the extent applicable, by Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as defined in section 479B(a)) or tribal consortia with a plan approved under section 471 in accordance with section 479B. 
(2) Requirements
The evaluation shall include the following:
(A) A review of relevant aspects of reports submitted by States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia under this part and part B, and data and other information reported pursuant to the system established under section 479. (B) Analysis of the extent to which States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia comply with, and enforce, the protocols required by section 471(a)(35).
(C) Analysis of the effectiveness of such protocols. (D) Identification of obstacles for States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia to identifying and responding to reports of children missing from foster care and other vulnerable foster youth.
(E) Identification of best practices for identifying such children and youth and intervening with effective services. 
(3) Technical assistance
The Secretary shall provide States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia with information, advice, educational materials, and technical assistance relating to eliminating identified obstacles to identifying and responding to reports of children missing from foster care and other vulnerable foster youth and providing such children and youth with effective services. Such assistance may include dissemination of—
(A) processes and tools to identify and examine risk factors and potential trends related to children who go missing from foster care and other vulnerable youth; (B) best practices for runaway tracking and recovery; and
(C) guidelines for intervention, including with respect to services, types of providers, and placement settings. 
(4) Report
Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress on the results of the evaluation conducted under this subsection and the technical assistance provided in accordance with paragraph (3). .
3. Improving screening and assessment of children returned to foster care after going missing to determine whether they were, or are at risk of becoming, victims of sex trafficking
Section 476 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 676), as amended by section 2, is further amended by adding at the end the following:  (g) Improving identification of, and services for, children who return to foster care after running away or otherwise being absent from foster care and who are, or are at risk of being, victims of sex trafficking
 
(1) Assistance
 (A) Screening after a return to foster care
The Secretary shall provide States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia, with information, advice, educational materials, and technical assistance to improve compliance with section 471(a)(35)(A)(iii).
(B) Improving other requirements
The information, advice, educational materials, and technical assistance provided may include information, advice, educational materials, and technical assistance to improve or modify policies and procedures (including relevant training for caseworkers) developed by States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia under section 471(a)(9)(C), including the following: (i) Identifying, through screening, whether the State has reasonable cause to believe the child or youth is, or is at risk of being, a victim of sex trafficking.
(ii) Documenting the results of such screening in agency records. (iii) Determining appropriate services for a child or youth for whom the State determines there is reasonable cause to identify the child or youth as a victim of sex trafficking, or as at risk of being a victim of sex trafficking.
(iv) Documenting in agency records the determination of appropriate services for a child or youth described in clause (iii). 
(2) Forms of assistance
The assistance provided under this subsection shall include the following:
(A) Assisting States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia, with developing oversight mechanisms to assess their compliance with section 471(a)(35)(A)(iii). (B) Assisting States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia in developing—
(i) assessments for screening children who return to foster care after running away or otherwise being absent from foster care for risk of becoming victims of sex trafficking; and (ii) effective and robust policies relating to the use of the assessments.
(C) Working with States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia to improve or modify policies and procedures developed under section 471(a)(9)(C). (D) Providing technical assistance on how States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia may best use data collected pursuant to section 479 for oversight of, and to ensure compliance with, the requirements of paragraphs (9)(C) and (35)(A)(iii) of section 471(a).

(3) Consultation
The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, consult with internal and external offices with expertise on sex trafficking, including the Office on Trafficking in Persons of the Administration for Children and Families, on the development and dissemination to States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia of the assistance required under this subsection.. 4. Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act for fiscal year 2023, which shall remain available through fiscal year 2027.
