
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Drone Infrastructure Inspection Grant Act. 2. Definitions
In this Act:

(1) Critical infrastructure
The term critical infrastructure has the meaning given such term in subsection (e) of the Critical Infrastructures Protection Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)). 
(2) Covered foreign entity
The term covered foreign entity means an entity—
(A) included on the Consolidated Screening List or Entity List as designated by the Secretary of Commerce; (B) domiciled in the People’s Republic of China or the Russian Federation;
(C) subject to influence or control by the Government of the People’s Republic of China or by the Russian Federation; or (D) is a subsidiary or affiliate of an entity described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).

(3) Educational institution
The term educational institution means an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the High Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) that participates in a program authorized under sections 631 and 632 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 40101 note). 
(4) Element of critical infrastructure
The term element of critical infrastructure means a critical infrastructure facility or asset, including public bridges, tunnels, roads, highways, dams, electric grid, water infrastructure, communication systems, pipelines, or other related facilities or assets, as determined by the Secretary.

(5) Eligible small unmanned aircraft system
The term eligible small unmanned aircraft system means a small unmanned aircraft system manufactured or assembled by a company that is domiciled in the United States and is not a covered foreign entity. 
(6) Eligible small unmanned aircraft system technology
The term eligible small unmanned aircraft system technology means—
(A) an eligible small unmanned aircraft system; or (B) a major component of such a system that is not manufactured by or procured from a covered foreign entity.

(7) Governmental entity
The term governmental entity means— (A) a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States, or a political subdivision thereof;
(B) a unit of local government; (C) a Tribal government;
(D) a metropolitan planning organization; or (E) a consortia of more than 1 of the entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).

(8) Project
The term project means a project for the inspection, operation, maintenance, repair, modernization, or construction of an element of critical infrastructure, including mitigating environmental hazards to such infrastructure. 
(9) Small unmanned aircraft; unmanned aircraft system
The terms small unmanned aircraft and unmanned aircraft system have the meanings given such terms in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code.
3. Drone infrastructure inspection grant program

(a) Authority
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a drone infrastructure inspection grant program to make grants to governmental entities to facilitate the use of eligible small unmanned aircraft systems to support more efficient inspection, operation, construction, maintenance, modernization, and repair of critical infrastructure to improve worker safety related to critical infrastructure projects. (b) Use of grant amounts
A governmental entity may use a grant provided under this section to—

(1) purchase or lease eligible small unmanned aircraft systems; 
(2) support operational capabilities of eligible small unmanned aircraft systems by the governmental entity;

(3) contract for services performed using an eligible small unmanned aircraft system in circumstances in which the governmental entity does not have the resources or expertise to safely carry out or assist in carrying out the activities described under subsection (a); and 
(4) support the program management capability of the governmental entity to use an eligible small unmanned aircraft system.
(c) Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a governmental entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including an assurance that the governmental entity or any contractor of the governmental entity, will comply with relevant Federal regulations. (d) Selection of applicants
In awarding a grant under this section, the Secretary shall prioritize applications that propose to—

(1) carry out a critical infrastructure project in a variety of communities, including urban, suburban, rural, tribal, or any other type of community; and 
(2) address a safety risk in the inspection, operation, construction, maintenance, or repair of critical infrastructure.
(e) Limitation
Nothing in this section shall be construed as to interfere with an agreement between a governmental entity and a labor union, including requirements under section 5333(b) of title 49, United States Code. (f) Report to congress
Not later than 1 year after the first grant is provided under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that evaluates the program carried out under this section, including—

(1) a description of the number of grants awarded; 
(2) the amount of each grant;

(3) the activities funded under this section; and 
(4) the effectiveness of such funded activities in meeting the objectives described in subsection (a).
(g) Funding


(1) Federal share

(A) In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Federal share of the cost of a project carried out using a grant under this section shall not exceed 50 percent of the total project cost. (B) Waiver
The Secretary may increase the Federal share requirement under subparagraph (A) to up to 75 percent for a project carried out using a grant under this section by a governmental entity if such entity—
(i) submits a written application to the Secretary requesting an increase in the Federal share; and (ii) demonstrates that the additional assistance is necessary to facilitate the acceptance and full use of a grant under this section, such as alleviating economic hardship, meeting additional workforce needs, or such other uses that the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

(2) Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section— (A) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2024; 
(B) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2025; (C) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2026;
(D) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2027; and  (E) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2028.
4. Drone education and workforce training grant program

(a) Authority
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a drone education and training grant program to make grants to educational institutions for workforce training for eligible small unmanned aircraft system technology. (b) Use of grant amounts
Amounts from a grant under this section shall be used in furtherance of activities authorized under sections 631 and 632 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 40101 note).
(c) Eligibility
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an educational institution shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. (d) Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—

(1) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;  
(2) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2025;

(3) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; 
(4) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2027; and

(5) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2028. 