1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Climate Change Relief for Urban Areas Act of 2023. 2. Prioritization of urban and community forestry assistance to areas with low tree equity scores
Section 9 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2105) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following: In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall give priority to providing assistance to State foresters or equivalent State officials serving areas with the lowest tree equity scores, as determined by the Secretary;
(2) in subsection (h)—(A) in paragraph (2), by striking and at the end;(B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and adding ; and; and(C) by adding at the end the following: 
(4) the term tree equity score means a tree equity score, as determined by the Secretary, that is—(A) either—(i) substantially similar to the tree equity score established by American Forests (or a successor tree equity score developed by such conservation organization or other similar organization); or(ii) a tree equity tool that the Secretary determines is most appropriate for the communities served by such tool; and(B) based on how the tree canopy and surface temperature of an area align with income, employment, race, age, and health factors of that area as determined by consulting with community representatives or community-based organizations.; and
(3) in subsection (i), by striking fiscal years 1991 through 1995 and inserting fiscal years 2023 through 2028. 3. Pilot grant program to public elementary and secondary school rooftop gardens
(a) Pilot program established
The Secretary shall establish a competitive grant program under which the Secretary shall make grants to eligible entities to establish or expand rooftop gardens. (b) Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including the square feet of the proposed rooftop garden (or expansion of such rooftop garden).(c) Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to the eligible entities that have the lowest garden equity score, as determined by the Secretary based on, with respect to the area in which the eligible entity is located, the population density, racial composition, incidence of respiratory illness, number of urban gardens, food sovereignty, and average surface temperature. (d) Use of funds
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant funds to carry out each of the following:
(1) Assessing (including through architectural analysis) if the area identified for purposes of establishing or expanding a rooftop garden can support such garden or expansion and the construction thereof. 
(2) Applying for permits with respect to such rooftop garden.
(3) Establishing a financial plan with respect to the establishment or expansion of such rooftop garden.
(4) Designing a rooftop garden—(A) of which at least 20 percent is comprised of native plants, fruits, or vegetables;(B) that does not include plants identified by the State in which such garden is located as invasive species;(C) using best practices to reduce risk of contaminants (such as using cleaning soil in raised garden beds); and(D) either—(i) a strategy for increasing energy efficiency and increasing the surface ability of a building to reflect sunlight and absorb less solar energy; or(ii) if the strategy in clause (i) is not feasible, a strategy to increase habitat and food availability for pollinators, manage rainwater, or provide other benefits to the community.
(5) Incorporating into the science curriculum of the entity—(A) an urban agriculture lesson plan; or(B) a lesson plan on pollinator habitat, green infrastructure for heat or stormwater management, or remediation of soil and water contaminants by plants.(e) Organic requirement
An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section may only use organic farming methods with respect to a rooftop garden established or expanded by such grant.(f) Routine inspections

(1) In general
The Secretary shall inspect each rooftop garden for which a grant is awarded under this section once each year.
(2) Contract authority
The Secretary may enter into contracts with appropriate entities to carry out the inspections required under paragraph (1). (g) Definitions
In this section:
(1) Eligible entity
The term eligible entity means a public elementary school or secondary school.
(2) ESEA terms
The terms elementary school and secondary school have the meanings given the terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801). 
(3) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture. (h) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2028.