1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Kids Fly Safe Act.2. Study and report on child safety in aviation
(a) Study
The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (in this section referred to as the Administrator), in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, shall conduct a comprehensive study on child safety in aviation. The study shall include, but not be limited to, evaluation of the following issues: 
(1) The usage and aircraft compatibility of age-appropriate child safety seats and restraints, including the different passenger safety and restraint needs of infants, toddlers, and older children with aircraft passenger seating.
(2) The procedures for evacuation of children safely and efficiently from a transport category airplane and the extent to which new or revised age-appropriate requirements are needed. 
(3) Protection of strollers, child seats, and other child safety equipment while in an aircraft cargo hold. 
(4) Taking into account other evaluations of airports for compliance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), evaluation of the extent to which diaper changing stations and areas designated for breastfeeding are accessible in airport terminals. 
(5) The extent to which airport terminal design requirements include measures relating to ensuring the general physical safety of children in the terminal and while on airport property.
(6) The extent to which airport and airline policies protect children from contagious diseases or in-flight respiratory issues.
(7) The extent to which the revised training required by section 1950 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 44901 note) for Transportation Security Officers related to the screening of passengers with disabilities, including passengers with disabilities who participate in the PreCheck program, and the best practices recommended under subsection (b) of such section, address the proper screening, and any particular sensitivities related to the screening, of passengers who are children with a disability. (b) Report
Not later than 180 after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing the results of the study conducted under subsection (a), together with recommendations for such legislation as the Administrator determines appropriate. 