1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Promoting Resources to Expand Vaccination, Education and New Treatments for HPV Cancers Act of 2023 or the PREVENT HPV Cancers Act of 2023.2. Findings
Congress finds the following:
(1) The human papillomavirus (referred to in this Act as HPV) causes six different types of cancer (anal, cervical, oropharynx, penile, vaginal, and vulvar).
(2) Approximately 37,300 cases of cancer are caused by HPV each year impacting both women and men. 
(3) About 90 percent of cervical and anal cancers are thought to be caused by HPV.
(4) Black and Hispanic women are more likely to get HPV-associated cervical cancer than women of other races and ethnicities due to disparities in access to cancer screening and early detection.
(5) New cases of cervical cancer decreased among women in young age groups, likely due to HPV vaccination, but in recent years, new cases of cervical cancer rates among women in older age groups have plateaued or, in the case of women ages 30–34, increased. 
(6) Cervical cancer screening has declined and there has been an increase in cervical cancer diagnosed at distant stages, which are more difficult to treat and more likely to recur, leading to greater morbidity and mortality.
(7) Approximately 60 to 70 percent of oropharynx cancer is tied to HPV.
(8) Most HPV infections that can lead to cancer can be prevented by vaccines. 
(9) HPV vaccines can also help prevent recurrent respiratory papillomatosis, anal and genital warts.
(10) Vaccination for HPV is approved for men and women.
(11) The vaccines are most effective if administered when an individual is between the ages of 9 and 17.
(12) Approximately 60 percent of adolescents have completed the HPV vaccine series. 
(13) Adolescents living in rural areas continue to be less likely to have initiated and completed the HPV vaccine series than those living in urban areas. 
(14) Health providers’ recommendation of the vaccine is critical to getting adolescents vaccinated.3. HPV vaccine public awareness campaign
(a) In general
Section 317 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:(o) HPV vaccine public awareness campaign

(1) In general
The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall carry out a national campaign to—(A) increase awareness of the importance of HPV vaccination;(B) combat misinformation about HPV vaccination; and(C) increase HPV vaccination rates and completion of the vaccine series, especially among males.
(2) Consultation
In carrying out the national campaign required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with the National Academy of Medicine, including health care providers and public health associations, nonprofit organizations (including those that represent communities most impacted by HPV-associated cancers and communities with low vaccination rates), State and local public health departments, elementary and secondary education organizations (including student and parent organizations), and institutions of higher education, to solicit advice on evidence-based information for policy development and program development, implementation, and evaluation.
(3) Requirements
The national campaign required by paragraph (1) shall—(A) include the use of evidence-based media and public engagement;(B) be carried out through competitive grants or cooperative agreements awarded to 1 or more private, nonprofit entities with a history developing and implementing similar campaigns;(C) include the development of culturally and linguistically competent resources that shall be tailored for—(i) communities with high rates of—(I) unvaccinated individuals, including males;(II) individuals with unique health care needs (such as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals);(III) individuals with high rates of cervical cancer and other HPV-associated cancers (such as Black and Hispanic women); and(IV) populations impacted by the increase in oropharynx cancers;(ii) rural communities; and(iii) such other communities as the Secretary determines appropriate;(D) include the dissemination of HPV vaccination information and communication resources to health care providers and health care facilities (including primary care providers, community health centers, dentists, obstetricians, and gynecologists), and such providers and such facilities for pediatric care, State and local public health departments, elementary and secondary schools, and colleges and universities;(E) be complementary to, and coordinated with, any other Federal efforts with respect to HPV vaccination;(F) include message testing to identify culturally competent and effective messages for behavioral change; and(G) include the award of grants or cooperative agreements to State, local, and Tribal public health departments—(i) to engage with communities specified in subparagraph (C), local education agencies, health care providers, community organizations, or other groups the Secretary determines are appropriate to develop and deliver effective strategies to increase HPV vaccination rates; and(ii) to disseminate culturally and linguistically competent resources on the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program and where an individual can access the screenings locally.
(4) Options for dissemination of information
The national campaign required by paragraph (1) may—(A) include the use of—(i) social media, television, radio, print, the internet, and other media;(ii) in-person or virtual public communications; and(iii) recognized, trusted figures;(B) be targeted to specific groups and communities specified in paragraph (3)(C); and(C) include the dissemination of information highlighting each of the following:(i) Recommended age range to get the HPV vaccine.(ii) The benefits of getting vaccinated against HPV, including the potential to not acquire HPV-associated cancers.(iii) HPV vaccine safety and the systems in place to monitor such safety.
(5) Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028..(b) Report to Congress
Not later than 2025, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate a report—
(1) that contains a qualitative assessment of the campaign under subsection (o) of section 317 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b), as added by subsection (a), and the activities conducted under such campaign; and 
(2) on, with respect to the impact on cancer associated with human papillomavirus, the activities conducted under such subsection (o).4. Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program
(a) In general
Section 1510(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300n–5(a)) is amended by striking and $275,000,000 for fiscal year 2012 and inserting $275,000,000 for fiscal year 2012, and $300,000,000 for each fiscal years 2024 through 2028.(b) Coordinating committee
Section 1501(d) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300k(d)) is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking 2020 and inserting 2030; and
(2) by striking 2020 and inserting 2025.