
1. Onshore oil and gas leasing

(a) Requirement To Immediately Resume Onshore Oil and Gas Lease Sales


(1) In general
The Secretary of the Interior shall immediately resume quarterly onshore oil and gas lease sales in compliance with the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.). 
(2) Requirement
The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure—
(A) that any oil and gas lease sale pursuant to paragraph (1) is conducted immediately on completion of all applicable scoping, public comment, and environmental analysis requirements under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and (B) that the processes described in subparagraph (A) are conducted in a timely manner to ensure compliance with subsection (b)(1).

(3) Lease of oil and gas lands
Section 17(b)(1)(A) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(b)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting Eligible lands comprise all lands subject to leasing under this Act and not excluded from leasing by a statutory or regulatory prohibition. Available lands are those lands that have been designated as open for leasing under a land use plan developed under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 and that have been nominated for leasing through the submission of an expression of interest, are subject to drainage in the absence of leasing, or are otherwise designated as available pursuant to regulations adopted by the Secretary. after sales are necessary.. (b) Quarterly Lease Sales
 
(1) In general
In accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), each fiscal year, the Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a minimum of four oil and gas lease sales in each of the following States:
(A) Wyoming. (B) New Mexico.
(C) Colorado. (D) Utah.
(E) Montana. (F) North Dakota.
(G) Oklahoma. (H) Nevada.
(I) Alaska. (J) Any other State in which there is land available for oil and gas leasing under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or any other mineral leasing law.

(2) Requirement
In conducting a lease sale under paragraph (1) in a State described in that paragraph, the Secretary of the Interior shall offer all parcels nominated and eligible pursuant to the requirements of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) for oil and gas exploration, development, and production under the resource management plan in effect for the State. 
(3) Replacement sales
The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a replacement sale during the same fiscal year if—
(A) a lease sale under paragraph (1) is canceled, delayed, or deferred, including for a lack of eligible parcels; or (B) during a lease sale required under paragraph (1) not more than 25 percent of the area offered for leasing receives a bid.

(4) Notice regarding missed sales
Not later than 30 days after a sale required under this subsection is canceled, delayed, deferred, or otherwise missed the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that states what sale was missed and why it was missed. 