1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Overcoming Prevalent Inadequacies in Overdose Information Data Sets Act or the OPIOIDS Act.2. Accurate data on opioid-related overdoses
The Attorney General may award grants to States, territories, and localities to support improved data and surveillance on opioid-related overdoses, including for activities to improve postmortem toxicology testing, data linkage across data systems throughout the United States, electronic death reporting, or the comprehensiveness of data on fatal and nonfatal opioid-related overdoses. 3. Law enforcement grants
(a) In general
The Attorney General shall make grants to local law enforcement agencies and forensic laboratories in communities with high rates of drug overdoses for the purpose of—
(1) training to help officers identify overdoses;
(2) upgrading essential systems for tracing drugs and processing samples in forensic laboratories to provide timely, accurate, and standard data reporting to the National Forensic Laboratory Information System; or
(3) training to better trace criminals through the darknet.(b) Mandatory reporting
None of the funds made under subsection (a) may be used by grantees that do not submit to the National Forensic Laboratory Information System reports on overdose data. (c) Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers shall provide training to State and local law enforcement agencies on how to best coordinate with State and Federal partners for tracking drug-related activity.(d) COPS grants
Section 1701(b) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10381) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (22), by striking and at the end;
(2) in paragraph (23), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
(24) to provide training and resources for containment devices to prevent secondary exposure to fentanyl and other substances for first responders..4. Office of National Drug Control Policy reform
(a) In general
The Drug Enforcement Administration shall develop uniform reporting standards for inputting data into the National Forensic Laboratory Information System for purity, formulation, and weight to allow for better comparison across jurisdictions and between agencies and the sharing of data. (b) Clarification
Nothing in subsection (a) may be construed to require the creation of new or increased obligations or reporting requirements on State or local laboratories.5. DEA testing
The Drug Enforcement Administration shall submit to Congress, as part of the annual budget process, a specific line item for the level of funding necessary for the Fentanyl Signature Profiling Program. 