
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Ensuring Voluntary Actions are Compensated Act of 2023 or the EVAC Act of 2023.  2. Plan for reimbursement of certain expenses of United States persons evacuated from Afghanistan
 (a) Plan
Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to reimburse any covered United States person who expended personal funds to evacuate American citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, or Afghan allies from Afghanistan during the period beginning on August 1, 2021, and ending on November 1, 2021.
(b) Consultation
In developing the plan required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the following: 
(1) The Secretary of Defense.

(2) Nongovernmental organizations and veterans service organizations with expertise in supporting the evacuation of American citizens and Afghan allies from Afghanistan.  (c) Elements
The plan required by subsection (a) shall also include the following elements:

(1) Eligibility requirements for covered United States persons to file a reimbursement claim under the plan. 
(2) The criteria for reimbursement, including the types of reimbursable claims and maximum reimbursement limit.

(3) The process for filing a reimbursement claim. 
(4) An estimate of the time that would be associated with processing a reimbursement claim.

(5) The supporting documentation required to file a reimbursement claim. 
(6) The process for disbursing funds to United States persons once a reimbursement claim is verified and approved,

(7) An estimate of the costs that would be associated with implementing the Plan. 
(8) A list of each nongovernmental organization and each veteran service organization consulted in accordance with subsection (b)(2) during the development of the plan.
(d) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) The term appropriate congressional committees means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

(2) The term Afghan ally means an individual who was eligible, upon evacuation during the period described in subsection (a), for— (A) special immigrant status under section 101(a)(27) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)), pursuant to section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–8; 8 U.S.C. 1101 note); or
(B) Priority 1 or Priority 2 processing under the refugee resettlement priority system. 
(3) The term covered United States person means—
(A) an individual who is a citizen or national of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States; or (B) an entity that is a nongovernmental organization and organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States.
