
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Rental Car Consumer Protection Act. 2. Consumer protection requirements in renting motor vehicles
 (a) Reservations
If a rental company allows a consumer to make a reservation for a covered rental vehicle, such rental company shall make available to such consumer the vehicle reserved—

(1) within 1/2 hour of the reserved time; and 
(2) at the reserved location.
(b) Deceptive advertising
A rental company may not advertise or represent that a consumer may make a reservation for a covered rental vehicle unless such rental company maintains the procedures required by subsection (c). (c) Records
 
(1) In general
A rental company that allows consumers to make reservations for covered rental vehicles shall maintain procedures reasonably calculated to fulfill such reservations.

(2) Procedures
The procedures required by paragraph (1) shall include maintaining a record of each such reservation and of the scheduled return time of each such vehicle. Such records shall be preserved for not fewer than 6 months. (d) Notice
 
(1) Requirement
A rental company that rents covered rental vehicles to consumers shall provide clear and conspicuous notice to such consumers that informs such consumers of the obligations of such rental company under this section and how such consumers may report violations of this section to the Commission. 

(2) Form
Such a rental company shall provide the notice described in paragraph (1) to such a consumer— (A) when such consumer makes a reservation for a covered rental vehicle; and
(B) on the business premises of such rental company. (e) Rulemaking
The Commission may promulgate regulations under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, to implement this section.
(f) Enforcement


(1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices
A violation of this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be treated as a violation of a regulation under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices. 
(2) Powers of the Commission
The Commission shall enforce this section and the regulations promulgated under this section in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as through all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this section. Any person who violates this section or a regulation promulgated under this section shall be subject to the penalties entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act.
(g) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) Commission
The term Commission means the Federal Trade Commission. 

(2) Covered rental vehicle
The term covered rental vehicle has the meaning given such term in section 30102(a) of title 49, United States Code. 
(3) Rental company
The term rental company has the meaning given such term in section 30102(a) of title 49, United States Code.
