1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Facilitating the Deployment of Infrastructure with Greater Internet Transactions And Legacy Applications Act or the Facilitating DIGITAL Applications Act. 2. Report on barriers to establishing online portals to accept, process, and dispose of certain Form 299s
(a) Report

(1) In general
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, and every 60 days thereafter until the Secretaries concerned each notify the Assistant Secretary under paragraph (2), the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that describes—(A) whether the Secretaries concerned have established, with respect to the relevant covered department, an online portal for the acceptance, processing, and disposal of a Form 299 for communications use authorization; and(B) any barrier to the establishment of any such portal.
(2) Notification
Not later than 3 business days after the date on which the online portal has been established by a Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1), that Secretary shall notify the Assistant Secretary of the establishment of such portal.(b) Definitions
In this Act:
(1) Appropriate congressional committees
The term appropriate congressional committees means—(A) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives;(C) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and(D) the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.
(2) Assistant Secretary
The term Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.
(3) Communications facility
The term communications facility has the meaning given the term communications facility installation in section 6409(d) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1455(d)).
(4) Communications use
The term communications use means the placement and operation of a communications facility.
(5) Communications use authorization
The term communications use authorization means an easement, right-of-way, lease, license, or other authorization—(A) provided by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture;(B) to locate or modify a communications facility on covered land; and(C) for the primary purpose of authorizing the occupancy and use of such covered land for communications use.
(6) Covered land
The term covered land means—(A) public lands; and(B) National Forest System land.
(7) Form 299
The term Form 299 means the form established under section 6409(b)(2)(A) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1455(b)(2)(A)), or any successor form.
(8) National Forest System
The term National Forest System has the meaning given that term in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a)).
(9) Relevant covered department
The term relevant covered department means—(A) with respect to the Secretary of the Interior, the Department of the Interior; and(B) with respect to the Secretary of Agriculture, the Department of Agriculture.
(10) Secretary concerned
The term Secretary concerned means—(A) the Secretary of the Interior; and(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service. 