
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Food Security for All Veterans Act. 2. Annual report on food insecurity among veterans
Subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section (and conforming the table of sections at the beginning of such chapter accordingly):

534. Annual report on food insecurity among veterans

(a) Annual report
The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an annual report on veteran food insecurity. Each such report shall include data on the following: 
(1) The socioeconomic and racial characteristics of veterans experiencing food insecurity, disaggregated by State in which the veteran is located, Indian tribe (if applicable), age, service-connected disability rating, racial or ethnic group, gender, gender identity, and sexual orientation.

(2) Native American veterans experiencing food insecurity. 
(3) Specific interventions for veterans who screen positive for food insecurity, including the number of—
(A) personnel from the Department who have received specific training in screening veterans for food insecurity; (B) referrals completed by a social worker, nutritionist, dietician, or other personnel of the Department for veterans who screen positive as food insecure, disaggregated by facility of the Department from which such veterans were referred; and
(C) veterans who screen positive as food insecure who were provided information regarding the supplemental nutrition assistance program and other Federal nutrition assistance programs. 
(4) Each referral described in paragraph (3)(B), including the number of such referrals that were completed.

(5) Eligibility screenings for participation in the supplemental nutrition assistance program completed by personnel of the Department.  
(6) The number of applications for participation in the supplemental nutrition assistance program completed with assistance from personnel of the Department. 

(7) Measurable outcomes for veterans who participate in the supplemental nutrition assistance program or other Federal nutrition assistance programs, including food security status, health outcomes, and other measures of well-being. 
(8) Coordination efforts between State agencies, facilities of the Department and the Department of Agriculture located in that State, and veteran service organizations regarding outreach to veterans to participate in the supplemental nutrition assistance program.
(b) Definitions
In this section: 
(1) The term appropriate congressional committees means the following:
(A) The Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives. (B) The Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.
(C) The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives. (D) The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate.

(2) The term Indian tribe has the meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304). 
(3) The terms Native American and Native American veteran have the meanings given those terms in section 3765 of this title.

(4) The terms State agency and supplemental nutrition assistance program have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012). . 