
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the District of Columbia Government Title Equality Act.  2. Redesignation of Office of Mayor of District of Columbia as Office of Governor of District of Columbia
 (a) Redesignation
Section 421(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.21(a), D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:

(a) There is established the Office of the Governor of the District of Columbia, and the Governor shall be elected by the registered qualified electors of the District.. (b) Treatment of current Mayor
For purposes of section 421(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, as amended by subsection (a), the individual holding the Office of Mayor of the District of Columbia as of the date of the enactment of this Act shall be deemed to have been elected to the Office of Governor of the District of Columbia by the registered qualified electors of the District.
(c) References in law
Any reference to the Office of the Mayor of the District of Columbia in any law, rule, or regulation of the United States or the District of Columbia shall be deemed to refer to the Office of the Governor of the District of Columbia, and any reference to the Mayor of the District of Columbia in any law, rule, or regulation of the United States or the District of Columbia shall be deemed to refer to the Governor of the District of Columbia. 3. Redesignation of Council of District of Columbia as Legislative Assembly of District of Columbia
 (a) Redesignation
Section 401(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.01(a), D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:

(a) There is established a Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia, consisting of Representatives who shall be elected by the registered qualified electors of the District.. (b) Treatment of current Members
For purposes of section 401(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, as amended by subsection (a), any individual holding the Office of Member of the Council of the District of Columbia as of the date of the enactment of this Act shall be deemed to have been elected to the Office of Representative of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia by the registered qualified electors of the District.
(c) References in law
Any reference to the Council of the District of Columbia in any law, rule, or regulation of the United States or the District of Columbia shall be deemed to refer to the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia, and any reference to a Member of the Council of the District of Columbia in any law, rule, or regulation of the United States or the District of Columbia shall be deemed to refer to a Representative of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia. 4. Redesignation of Chair of Council of District of Columbia as Speaker of Legislative Assembly of District of Columbia
 (a) Redesignation
Section 411(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.11(a) D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:

(a) The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia shall be the presiding officer of the Legislative Assembly.. (b) Treatment of current chair
For purposes of section 411(a) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, as amended by subsection (a), the individual holding the Office of Chair of the Council of the District of Columbia as of the date of the enactment of this Act shall be deemed to have been elected to the Office of Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia by the registered qualified electors of the District.
(c) References in law
Any reference to the Office of the Chair of the Council of the District of Columbia in any law, rule, or regulation of the United States or the District of Columbia shall be deemed to refer to the Office of the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia, and any reference to the Chair of the Council of the District of Columbia in any law, rule, or regulation of the United States or the District of Columbia shall be deemed to refer to the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia. 