
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Veteran Improvement Commercial Driver License Act of 2023. 2. Modification of rules for approval of commercial driver education programs for purposes of veterans educational assistance
 (a) In general
Section 3680A(e) of title 38, United States Code, is amended—

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as subparagraphs (A) though (C), respectively; 
(2) in the matter before subparagraph (A), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by inserting (1) before The Secretary;

(3) in paragraph (1)(B), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by inserting except as provided in paragraph (2), before the course; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):


(2) 
(A) Subject to this paragraph, a commercial driver education program is exempt from paragraph (1)(B) for a branch of an educational institution if the commercial driver education program offered at the branch by the educational institution— (i) is appropriately licensed; and
(ii) uses the same curriculum as a commercial driver education program offered by the educational institution at another location that is approved for purposes of this chapter by a State approving agency or the Secretary when acting in the role of a State approving agency. (B)  (i) In order for a commercial driver education program of an educational institution offered at a branch described in paragraph (1)(B) to be exempt under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the educational institution shall submit to the Secretary each year that paragraph (1)(B) would otherwise apply a report that demonstrates that the curriculum at the new branch is the same as the curriculum at the primary location.
(ii) Reporting under clause (i) shall be submitted in accordance with such requirements as the Secretary shall establish in consultation with the State approving agencies. (C)  (i) The Secretary may withhold an exemption under subparagraph (A) for any educational institution or branch of an educational institution as the Secretary considers appropriate.
(ii) In making any determination under clause (i), the Secretary may consult with the Secretary of Transportation on the performance of a provider of a commercial driver program, including the status of the provider within the Training Provider Registry of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration when appropriate.. (b) Implementation
 
(1) Establishment of requirements
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish requirements under section 3680A(e)(2)(B)(ii) of such title, as added by subsection (a).

(2) Applicability
The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to commercial driver education programs on and after the date that is 180 days after the date on which the Secretary establishes the requirements under paragraph (1) of this subsection. 