
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the High School Sports Injury Reporting Act.  2. Report on feasability of reporting data on injuries in high school sports to improve safety of student athletes
 (a) Report
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on high school sports injury reporting. 
(b) Contents
The report under subsection (a) shall include the following: 
(1) A survey to examine how injuries in high school sports are reported in the United States, including—
(A) the kind of data that is available; (B) the tools used to report such data; and
(C) the effect of such reporting on the outcomes relating to such injuries. 
(2) An in-depth evaluation of a State that requires reporting data relating to such injuries, including—
(A) the tools that high schools in that State use to conduct such reporting;  (B) the ability of such schools to collect such data; and
(C) the effect of such reporting on the recovery of student athletes from such injuries. 
(3) An analysis of how such reporting affects the number of such injuries and the treatment relating to such injuries.

(4) A description of recommendations on how such data reporting helps inform sports safety statutes, policies, and practices in the State. 
(5) What Federal statutes, policies, tools, and practices could be employed to support high schools nationwide in employing robust high school sports injury reporting requirements and systems to improves student athlete safety. 

(6) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate. (c) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees
The term appropriate congressional committees means— (A) the Committees on Appropriations, Education and the Workforce, and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committees on Appropriations and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate. 
(2) High school
The term high school has the meaning given such term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801). 
