
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Safe Seats for All Act. 2. Passenger seat sizing
 (a) In general
Chapter 423 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 

42305. Passenger seat sizing

(a) Minimum dimensions of passenger seats
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall issue regulations to establish minimum dimensions for seats on passenger aircraft (including dimensions for the size, width, length, and pitch of seats), to ensure the safety and health of passengers, including with respect to emergency evacuations, the ability of passengers to execute the brace position, and passengers with deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. (b) Interim prohibition on seat reduction
During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this section and ending on the effective date of the regulations issued under subsection (a), an air carrier or foreign air carrier (as such terms are defined in section 40102) may not reduce the size, width, length, or pitch of the seats on any passenger aircraft of such carrier (including with respect to the dimensions of seat shoulder width, elbow width, the edge of the seat base to back of the seat in front, the edge of the seat base to the headrest of seat in front, foot clearance, and foot clearance envelope).
(c) Rule of construction
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an air carrier or foreign air carrier from altering the seating configuration of an aircraft if such configuration does not reduce the number of passenger seats in the economy class of service.. (b) Clerical amendment
The analysis for chapter 423 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 


42305. Passenger seat sizing..
(c) Repeal of 2018 minimum dimension provision
Section 577 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 42301 note), and the item relating to such section in the table of contents under section 1(b) of such Act, are repealed. 