
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Clifton Opportunities Now for Vibrant Economic Yields Act or as the CONVEY Act. 2. Conveyance of Federal land to Mesa County, Colorado
 (a) Definitions
In this section:

(1) Clifton parcel
The term Clifton parcel means the approximately 31.1 acres of Federal land depicted as 31.1 Acres to be Conveyed to Mesa County on the map titled Clifton Opportunities Now for Vacant Earth Yields (CONVEY) Act and dated February 27, 2023.  
(2) County
The term County means Mesa County, Colorado.

(3) Secretary
The term Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management. (b) In general
Notwithstanding the Secretarial Order dated August 26, 1902, and the Secretarial Order dated July 25, 1908, the Secretary shall convey to the County, as soon as practicable, all rights, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Clifton parcel.
(c) Requirements
The conveyance under this section shall be— 
(1) subject to valid existing rights; and

(2) for not less than fair market value, as determined in accordance with subsection (d). (d) Appraisal
 
(1) In general
The fair market value of the Clifton parcel shall be determined by an independent appraisal obtained by the Secretary.

(2) Appraisal standards
The appraisal required by paragraph (1) shall be conducted in accordance with the— (A) Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.   (e) Costs of conveyance
 
(1) In general
Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall pay all costs associated with the conveyance required under subsection (b).

(2) Survey
The County shall pay all costs associated with any survey conducted for the purpose of accomplishing the conveyance required under subsection (b). (f) Proceeds from conveyance
The proceeds from the conveyance required under subsection (b) shall be—

(1) deposited into the Federal Land Disposal Account established by the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.); and 
(2) available for expenditure under that Act. 
(g) Map and legal description


(1) In general
As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize a map and a legal description of all land to be conveyed under this Act. 
(2) Controlling document
In the case of a discrepancy between the map and the legal description created under paragraph (1), the map shall control.

(3) Corrections
The Secretary and the County, by mutual agreement, may correct any minor errors in the map or the legal description created under paragraph (1). 
(4) Map on file
The map and the legal description created under paragraph (1) shall be kept on file and available for public inspection in each appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management. 
