
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Dr. Norman C. Francis Congressional Gold Medal Act. 2. Findings
Congress finds the following:

(1) Dr. Norman Christopher Francis was born in Lafayette, LA, on March 20, 1931, to Joseph A. Francis and Mabel F. Francis. His parents were a barber and a homemaker, and he had a Catholic education at St. Paul Catholic elementary and secondary schools in Lafayette. 
(2) After graduation, Francis attended Xavier University of Louisiana in New Orleans, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree.

(3) An honor student all four years at Xavier University of Louisiana, young Norman Francis conducted his work scholarship repairing damaged books in the university library. In his senior year, he was elected student body president. 
(4) From 1952–1955, Francis attended Loyola University Law School in New Orleans, where he earned his Juris Doctorate. He made history as the first Black graduate of Loyola University Law School in 1955.

(5) Upon graduation he married the late Mrs. Blanche Macdonald, but then was drafted into the United States Army’s Third Armored Division, where he earned the rank of corporal specialist four. After a two-year tour of duty, Francis left the Army in 1957 and began his civilian career. 
(6) Upon his return from the military, he joined the U.S. Attorney’s Office and worked to help integrate Federal agencies.

(7) Dr. Francis used his law degree to represent civil rights activists as a young lawyer. One of his clients was Xavier student body president, Rudolph Lombard, who had been arrested for attempting to integrate the lunch counter at McCrory’s on Canal Street in New Orleans. 
(8) As Dean of Men at Xavier University of Louisiana in 1961, he showed his moral courage and vision by housing the Freedom Riders in the historic St. Michael’s dormitory when the rest of New Orleans establishments had closed their doors to them or openly threatened their safety.

(9) In 1963, he became Director of Student Personnel Services and one year later (1964) he was promoted to Assistant to the President. In 1967, he became Executive Vice President. 
(10) In 1967, Dr. Francis joined the brotherhood of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated, Sigma Lambda chapter.

(11) On the day of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, April 4, 1968, at the age of 37, Dr. Francis accepted the position as President of Xavier University of Louisiana, the Nation’s only historically Black and Catholic university, and his alma mater. He broke barriers on that day by becoming the first African-American lay person to serve in that position. 
(12) His tenure as President lasted from 1968–2015, and he is one of the longest-sitting university presidents in the Nation’s history. Over that 49-year term, Dr. Francis steered the university to grow both in size and dimension.

(13) Dr. Francis was President of Xavier University of Louisiana during the height of the Civil Rights Movement, and while at the helm of the school, he more than tripled its enrollment, expanded course offerings, and transformed the campus grounds into an Emerald City of colorful green roofs. During his tenure, Xavier awarded more doctorate pharmacy degrees to Black Americans and sent more Black graduates to medical school than any other U.S. university. 
(14) Dr. Francis cofounded the Liberty Bank of New Orleans, one of the largest Black-owned banks in the country. Dr. Francis has served as its Chairman since the Bank’s inception in 1972 working to improve access to financial institutions for Black Americans.

(15) Francis has served in an advisory role to eight U.S. presidential administrations—not only on education issues, but civil rights as well—in addition to serving on 54 boards and commissions. In 1983, Francis helped compile and release the report A Nation at Risk during his service on the National Commission on Excellence in Education. The report was a landmark piece that summarized racism and classism with the school system and called for comprehensive education reform. 
(16) He co-chaired the Louisiana Recovery Authority after Hurricane Katrina, playing a vital role in helping the people of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast rebuild their lives in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.

(17) In 2006, then-President George W. Bush presented him with the Nation’s highest civil award, the Presidential Medal of Freedom in recognition of his, deep intellect, compassion and character.. 
(18) In 2009, he was named one of America’s Best Leaders by U.S. News Media Group and the Center for Public Leadership (CPL) at Harvard Kennedy’s School of Government.

(19) He has received 40 honorary degrees from other universities, and at least 20 major awards in recognition of his leadership in higher education as well as his unselfish service to New Orleans and to the Nation. 
(20) Francis’ civic endeavors include service as Chair of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, past Chair of the Louisiana Disaster Recovery Foundation, past Chair of the Southern Education Foundation, Chairman of the Board of Liberty Bank and Trust and a member of the Times-Picayune Advisory Board. Previously he has been Chairman of the New Orleans Aviation Board, the Metropolitan Area Committee Education Fund and the Board of Directors of PBS-affiliate WLAE–TV.

(21) Dr. Francis has been involved at the national level as past Chairman of the Boards of the Educational Testing Service, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, the College Board, the Southern Education Foundation and the American Association of Higher Education. He was also member president of the UNCF, a member of the Board of Trustees of Catholic University, and Chairman of SACS, the southern regional accrediting agency for more than 11,000 institutions in eleven States. 
(22) A man of enduring determination, vision, faith, and strength, Dr. Norman C. Francis has forever changed the lives and landscape of the communities of New Orleans, Louisiana, and all of America. We are forever grateful for his service and are proud to present him with the distinguished recognition of a Congressional Gold Medal.
3. Congressional gold medal

(a) Presentation authorized
The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Dr. Norman C. Francis, in recognition of his contributions to the United States. (b) Design and striking
For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the Secretary) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary. The design shall bear an image of, and inscription of the name of, Dr. Norman C. Francis.
4. Duplicate medals
The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses. 5. Status of medals
 (a) National medals
The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
(b) Numismatic items
For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 6. Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale
 (a) Authority To use fund amounts
There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck under this Act.
(b) Proceeds of sale
Amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund. 