
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Peer Education and Emergency Response for Mental Health Act of 2023 or the PEER Mental Health Act of 2023. 2. Grants for peer mental health first aid
Title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after section 520J of such Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb–41) the following:

520J–1. Grants for peer mental health first aid

(a) In general
The Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities— 
(1) to train teachers, other relevant school personnel (including education support professionals), students, and parents and caregivers of students—
(A) to recognize symptoms of childhood and adolescent mental health conditions; (B) to refer teachers, school personnel, students, and their family members to appropriate mental health services if necessary; and
(C) to recognize signs of immediate mental distress and, upon recognizing such signs apply mental health first aid tactics; and 
(2) to provide education to such teachers, personnel, students, parents, and caregivers regarding resources that are available in the community for individuals with a mental illness.
(b) Relation to other mental health awareness training grants
An eligible entity may receive grant funds under this section in addition to receiving amounts made available to such eligible entity pursuant to section 520J. (c) Allocation for schools in rural areas
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall award not less than 25 percent of the grants to eligible entities that are elementary schools and secondary schools in rural areas.
(d) Application


(1) In general
To seek a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities that are carried out with funds received through the grant. 
(2) Streamlined process
The Secretary shall streamline the process for applying for a grant under this section so as to keep such process from imposing an unreasonable barrier, especially for eligible entities with limited personnel available to prepare a grant application.
(e) Technical assistance
The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to eligible entities applying for or receiving grants under this section. (f) Definition
In this section:

(1) The terms elementary school, local educational agency, secondary school, and State educational agency have the meanings given to those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. 
(2) The term eligible entity means an elementary school, a local educational agency, a secondary school, or a State educational agency.

(3) The term rural area refers to a rural area as defined by the Health Resources and Services Administration for purposes of awarding rural health grants. (g) Authorization of appropriations
To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $24,963,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028.
