
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Fuels Parity Act.  2. Eliminating renewable fuel standard advanced biofuel corn starch prohibition
 (a) Advanced biofuel definition
Section 211(o)(1)(B) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)(B)) is amended—

(1) in clause (i), by striking , other than ethanol derived from corn starch,; and 
(2) in subclause (ii)(II), by striking (other than corn starch) and inserting , including corn starch.
(b) Conforming change
Section 211(o)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)) is amended by striking subparagraph (F) (relating to the definition of conventional biofuel). (c) Applicability
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply beginning with the first calendar year that begins after the date of enactment of this Act.
3. Greenhouse gas emissions from corn-based ethanol and biomass-based diesel

(a) In general
Subject to subsection (b), not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (in this section referred to as the Administrator) shall update the methodology used by the Environmental Protection Agency in lifecycle analyses with respect to— 
(1) greenhouse gas emissions that result from ethanol derived from corn starch; and

(2) greenhouse gas emissions that result from biomass-based diesel (as defined in section 211(o)(1)(D) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)(D)). (b) Requirements
 
(1) First update
In carrying out the first update required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall adopt the most recent Greenhouse Gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy Use in Transportation model (commonly referred to as the GREET model) developed by Argonne National Laboratory.

(2) Subsequent updates
In carrying out the second and each subsequent update required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall— (A) as necessary, adopt, review, or update a methodology determined to be appropriate by the Administrator; or
(B) adopt the methodology described in paragraph (1). 