
1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Balkans Security Cooperation Act. 2. Report on security cooperation with respect to Western Balkan countries
 (a) In general
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on security cooperation with respect to Western Balkan countries. 
(b) Matters To be included
The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:  
(1) An assessment of security cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the Russian Federation, including the following: 
(A) A list of Russian weapons systems and other military hardware and technology valued at $1,000,000 or more that have been provided to or purchased by each Western Balkan country since 2012.  (B) A description of the participation of each Western Balkan country’s security forces in training or exercises with the Russian Federation since 2012. 
(C) A description of any security cooperation agreements each Western Balkan country has entered into with the Russian Federation.  (D) An assessment of intelligence cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the Russian Federation. 
(E) An assessment of how security cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the Russian Federation affects the security interests of the United States, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western Balkan country, and each NATO member state that borders the Western Balkan country.  
(2) An assessment of security cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the People’s Republic of China, including the following: 
(A) A list of Chinese weapons systems and other military hardware and technology valued at $1,000,000 or more that have been provided to or purchased by each Western Balkan country since 2012.  (B) A description of the participation of each Western Balkan country’s security forces in training or exercises with the People’s Republic of China since 2012. 
(C) A description of any security cooperation agreements each Western Balkan country has entered into with the People’s Republic of China.  (D) An assessment of intelligence cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the People’s Republic of China. 
(E) An assessment of how security cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the People’s Republic of China affects the security interests of the United States, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Western Balkan country, and each NATO member state that borders the Western Balkan country.  
(3) An assessment of security cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the United States, including the following: 
(A) A list of United States weapons systems and other military hardware and technology valued at $1,000,000 or more that have been provided to or purchased by each Western Balkan country since 2012.  (B) A description of the participation of each Western Balkan country’s security forces in training or exercises with the United States since 2012. 
(C) A description of any security cooperation agreements each Western Balkan country has entered into with the United States.  (D) An assessment of intelligence cooperation between each Western Balkan country and the United States. 

(4) An assessment of security cooperation between each Western Balkan country and NATO.  
(5) A description of each Western Balkan country’s participation and activities in NATO’s Partnership for Peace program, if applicable. 

(6) An assessment of the Russian Humanitarian Center in Niš, Serbia, and any influence or coordination it may have with Russian Federation Intelligence Agencies. (c) Form
The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex. 
(d) Definitions
In this section— 
(1) the term appropriate congressional committees means—
(A) congressional defense committees (as such term is defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code); and (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the term ‘‘Western Balkan countries’’ means— (A) Albania;
(B) Bosnia and Herzegovina;  (C) Croatia; 
(D) Kosovo;  (E) Montenegro;
(F) North Macedonia;  (G) Serbia; and
(H) Slovenia. 