
1. Termination of Electronic Health Record Modernization Program

(a) Termination
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not carry out the Electronic Health Record Modernization Program. (b) Implementation of termination
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out the following activities:

(1) Abolish the Electronic Health Record Modernization Integration Office. 
(2) Transfer any activities or functions carried out under such office that are not terminated pursuant to this section to the Veterans Health Administration or the Office of Information and Technology of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

(3) With respect to each facility of the Veterans Health Administration that uses the electronic health record system implemented pursuant to the Electronic Health Record Modernization Program, revert the facility to instead use the Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture and the Computerized Patient Record System of the Department. (c) No expansion during implementation of termination
During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which the Secretary carries out subsection (b), the Secretary may not carry out any activities to implement the electronic health record system implemented pursuant to the Electronic Health Record Modernization Program at a facility of the Veterans Health Administration where such system is not being used as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
(d) Contracts


(1) Options
The Secretary may not exercise any option periods or optional tasks under any contract under the Electronic Health Record Modernization Program. 
(2) Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to require the Secretary to terminate any contract, task order, modification, or other similar instrument, under the Electronic Health Record Modernization Program before the expiration of the period of performance of such contract, task order, modification, or other similar instrument.
(e) Conforming amendments


(1) Oversight of Electronic Health Record Modernization Program
Section 503 of the Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–407; 38 U.S.C. 5701 note prec.) is repealed. 
(2) Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Interagency Program Office
Section 1635(c) of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110–181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking and the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs; (B) in paragraph (4)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)— (I) by striking , with the concurrence of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,; and
(II) by striking the second sentence; and (ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with the concurrence of the; and (II) by striking the second sentence; and
(C) by striking and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly each place it appears and inserting shall. 